--- id:2 | date:2022-12-04T17:25:16 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Ethiopian #Orthodox #Tewahedo #Religion

👉What is religion?

👉What is the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo religion?

👉How is the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo religion different from other religions?

👉What is the role of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo religion in saving humanity?

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we transmit through the John's Repentance website, we have sent the following introductory lesson about the Orthodox Tewahedo religion as a starting point for our education.


✍1. What is religion?

For all those who ask what religion is, the first thing they should know is that 'religion' is the lens of conscience of all of us, in which we distinguish between creator and creature, righteousness and condemnation, light and darkness, life and death, heaven and hell. Since the creation of the human world; Religion is the true way to know and reach the invisible, intangible, abstract God (Creator).

Religion is a subtle way of believing and knowing God. Except through religion, we could not see it with our eyes, hear with our senses, think with our hearts, and listen with our senses. Therefore, religion is the secret by which we can accept the divine wisdom, which is distant and abstract to us, with faith that it will be done.In his message to the Hebrews about faith, the Apostle Saint Paul said, "Faith assures us of what we hope for; It explains what we do not see" and he said that 'religion' is a special grace by which we can see God and His subtle work that we cannot see with our eyes (Hebrews 11:1).

The foundation of religion is to accept your Creator. Acknowledging your Creator begins with believing in being a creature. Because there is no one who says that I was created by myself. If a person believes that he is created, then he believes that he has a creator. Then he begins to search for his creator. An example of this is Abraham, the great righteous man. Abraham was born in Karan, in what is now Turkey. His father was Tara and was a pot worshiper. It was not only worshiping, but it was also managed by carving and selling idols. Later, he realized that the material that was carved by his father's hand and carried to the market and sold could not be God and started searching for the creator. In the process of searching, he tried to worship rivers, winds, mountains and the sun. He affirmed that all these are creatures and not creators. In the end, he shouted, "O Creator, speak to me." At that time, God, the Creator of creation, appeared to him. He ordered him to leave Karan, where idols were worshipped, and go to the promised land of Canaan. (Genesis 12:1) From then on, Abraham believed God and lived faithfully to his word. This is to know that Abraham trusted God's word. Even today, what we mean by religion is believing in God and believing in God's commands like Abraham did.

2. What does Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo religion mean?

First of all, it is necessary to briefly understand the words 'ortho', 'dox', '/tewahdo', and 'religion', based on their mystical meaning and theological teaching style and style of expression.

"Ortho Dox" means; The word is Greek. It means "straight path (true religion)".

In the 4th century, ie in 325 AD. 318 scholars (Church Fathers) by making a religious assembly (Synod assembly) in the city of Nicaea; At that time, Arius, a man of disbelief, said, "The Creator; It is a creature”; He caused many to disbelieve with the doctrine of disbelief. Therefore; As the history of our church testifies; In this conference, scholars named it "orthodox (straight path) religion" in order to distinguish the true, direct unified religion from Arius' religion of denial and apostasy.

The Prophet Jeremiah, speaking about the true and straight path (religion), said, "Ask for the straight path that was before you, and walk in it, and you will find rest for your souls" (Jer 6:16).

Our Lord Jesus Christ said, "I am the way, the truth, the life" (John 14:6).

(to be continued )👇

--- id:3 | date:2022-12-04T17:25:16 ---
(continued part)👆👇

The Apostle St. Paul wrote to his fellow Hebrews (his followers) in his message: "Let us hold on to our first faith until the end"; He taught about the first, and the first direct religion by saying (Hebrews 3:14).  

"Tewahdo" Tewahdo is a Geez word. In 431 AD. 200 bishops (church fathers) gathered in a synodal assembly in the city of Ephesus. Unity of divinity and flesh :- God the Son, intercede with the Virgin Mary. From her body: flesh; From her soul, soul; got up When he was born; "Word and flesh, united and glorified." Nestorus, a man of disbelief, opposed this true and direct teaching and taught falsely about the 'unity of the divine and the flesh'. Therefore, on the word 'Orthodox'; By adding the word 'Tawahdo'; The bishops, in this conference, decided to be called "Orthodox Tewahedo Religion". And Nestorus, who continued his rebellion of disbelief by saying that he refused to return from his disbelief through teaching and discipline; They condemned him and separated him from the church

1. How does the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo religion differ from other faiths?

The word 'religion is one' is a truth that does not raise any questions for a person who understands the unity of the creator. Religion means accepting your creator and trusting the law. And the Creator is one in character. Therefore, believing in one creator and worshiping him is the same thing. This is what we mean by religion. In short, religion means accepting the existence of a creator and being faithful to the laws of the creator. So if it is religion to accept that there is a creator of the worlds, a guardian and a leader, and if it is believed that the creator is one, then accepting that one creator and being governed by the law cannot be more than one unified system.

When the apostle Saint Paul said that religion is one as the Creator is one, he said, "There is one Lord, one religion, one baptism, who is above all, who works in all, and lives in all, and is the Father of all" (Eph 4:5).

In short, the creator of the worlds is one. The ritual of worshiping one creator is also the same. And this is the great truth.

Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ said, "You are a rock, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it." It got the name 'Christianity', that is, the unity of Christ's people, the unity of Christ's disciples. The religion called by this name was only one until the beginning of the fourth century, that is, until 325 AD. But after that time, as Christ himself first told us "Be careful that no one deceives you. For many false Christs and false prophets will arise, and if they can, they will show great signs and wonders until they deceive even the elect. (Matt. 24+5; 24)

The Prophet Jeremiah, speaking about the true and straight path (religion), said, "Ask for the straight path that was before you, and walk in it, and you will find rest for your souls" (Jer 6:16).

Orthodox Christianity

(to be continued)👇

--- id:4 | date:2022-12-04T17:25:16 ---
Orthodox Christianity

(continued part)👆👇

Basically, when we say "Orthodox Tewahedo Religion", we believe in the unity and trinity of God, and the knowledge that we cannot see with our fleshly eyes, that we cannot touch with our hands, that we cannot reach through research, and that there is a God (Creator) who precedes us even if we run. Through the laws of nature, he created heaven and earth, darkness and light, day and night, man and angels, wild animals and animals, plants and vegetables, creatures that move on land and sea, crawl on their chests, and fly on their wings, 22 creatures in total. 'Orthodox Tewahedo Religion' is the direct way to acknowledge the creator who feeds and guides all creatures. Therefore, as the creator is one, religion can be one. This is the main secret that makes it different from other types of faith. Because all faith is not religion; For example: those who believe in Satan, those who believe in worshiping gods, those who believe in the spirit of the king, those who worship fire, river, tree, stone, various spirits, we do not call all these nominal beliefs as 'religion'.

The true and direct religion is the treasure of the Holy Spirit given to us to believe in God alone, the Creator, Sustainer. “Religion is the foundation of everything; But the others are buildings and walls or roofs and walls." The foundation of a house does not support the whole building. Religion carries faith, conduct, and various good works. Just as a building does not stand without a foundation, there is no religion without conduct. Or it doesn't make sense. Apostle St. Jacob said, "If there is faith without works, it is dead in itself." Religion and morals; He said that they are like aspects of the same coin that cannot be spoken separately
Therefore, religion is not only believing in the existence of God, but also trusting. This means obeying God and performing the proper rituals according to the laws and regulations of the religion.

(to be continued)

--- id:5 | date:2022-12-04T17:25:16 ---
👉  About the mystery of the Trinity

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance website; today, we have sent you the following basic lesson based on the topic, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

Mystery

The basis and center of religious education is the acceptance of God. Next questions: Who is God? How his character revealed? Does it have a body? etc., are answered with the list of religious education; and this education is called a mystery because it is understood only by faith. So, mystery in this lesson mean spiritual, subtle, invisible, unknown, admirable and understood only by faith. Because either it is revealed by the extent of faith; but for those who do not believe, it is a hidden secret. Because, it cannot be reached through physical knowledge and scientific wisdom. Or, even if we say that we know and understand it, it is said that it is impossible to know the full extent of the mystery, except that we might   understand only to the extent that it is enough for the survival of the soul .

Trinity

Trinity is a noun derived from the Geez verb that means three. This is the lesson we learn about the trinity of God's body. Trinity is very different from three. For three speaks of three different things, and trinity speaks of three things in one thing. Therefore, when talking about trinity, it is necessary to talk about unity. 

Therefore, in the mystery of the Trinity, we learn not only about the threeness of God's body, but also about the unity of his character. In short, Trinity is the teaching that God is one and three. 

Their trinity is:- in name, in task, and in body.

Their unity is :- in character, in divinity, in power, in rulling, in will, in creating this world from non-existence to existence, as well as in feeding creation, protecting it, and in suspending this world.

Trinity means: Father has perfect form, perfect face, perfect body. And the Son has a perfect form, a perfect face and a perfect body. The Holy Spirit has a perfect form, a perfect face and a perfect body. The Father's body is always the Father's. The Son's body is always the Son's; The body of the Holy Spirit is always the Holy Spirit. That is, the bodies do not change, do not exchange, do not absorb. In their position, in their appearance and in their name, they will remain forever on their own. The names by which the bodies are called also remain unchanged for their bodies. Therefore, just as we say that the Trinity is three in body, so we say three in their name as well; and these Trinity Names are: Father, Son, Holy Spirit, (Matthew 28:19  ; Psalm 33:14, 118:73, Isaiah 66:1, Genesis 18:1-4 Matthew 3:16)  

(የግብር ሦስትነት ስንል፦ አብ ወላዲ አስራጺ ነው፤ ወልድ ተወላዲ ነው፤ መንፈስ ቅዱስ ሰራጺ ነው። )

Let's look at what the Bible says about the unity and trinity of the Mystery of the Trinity:

In the Old Testament

1.  "God said: let us make man in our image, after our likeness" (Genesis 1:26) Here: "God said" indicates unity, while "let us create man in our image" describes being more than one.

2.   "The Lord God said, Adam became as one of us to know good and evil" (Genesis 3:22). Here, "God said" refers to oneness, while "as one of us" refers to more than one.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:6 | date:2022-12-04T17:25:16 ---
(continued part)

3.  When God willed to create Eve, who will be his helper for Adam: “And the LORD God said, it is not good that the man should be alone; Let's create a suitable assistant for him” (Genesis 2:18). Here also, "God said" refers to oneness, while "Let’s create" refers to more than one.

4.  Another one, when the sons of Noah rebelled against God and started building a tower in the field of Sanatsor: "God said, Come, let us go down, as if they had lost their language there so that one would not hear the words of the other". Here, the word 'God said' indicates unity and the word 'let's go. down' indicates that there is more than one.

So, the verses we mentioned above are saying that God is one in character, divinity, creating and sustaining this world, and not one in body. However, they do not clearly explain that it is three, except that it is not physically one. However, when we continue reading the bible through, it is known that God is three in body. For example:-

5.  When God revealed himself to Abraham, "At noon, while he was sitting at the door of his tent, God appeared to him through the tree of Meri. He lifted up his eyes and saw three men standing before him. When he saw them, he ran from the door of the tent to meet them. He bowed to the earth. He said, "Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, I beg you not to let your servant pass over me." "And he lifted up his eyes and behold, he saw three men standing before him," and the saying that God is three in person (Trinity). And in the speech of Abraham, "O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, I beseech you not to let your servant pass away from me." This indicates that God is one in character, will and power.

6.  In addition; When the prophet Isaiah explained the trinity, "I saw God sitting on a long and high throne, and the area of his garment filled the temple. ..And the seraphim were standing above him. And they were shouting to each other: "Holy, Holy, Holy, the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory." The word refers to the unity and trinity of the Trinity. (Isaiah 6:3)

The New Testament

1.  The New Testament is an age of revelation. And it is God Himself who is revealed. The revelation that has been revealed in this age is very unique and clear compared to the revelation that was revealed to others in different ways previously. St. Paul explained this as follows: "Since ancient times, God has spoken to our fathers through prophets in many ways, and He has spoken to us at the end of this age through His Son, whom He made the heir of all things, and through whom He created the worlds." (Hebrews 1:1)

The physical word Jesus Christ taught in different ways that God is three in body, task, name, and unity, and one in character, will, and power, creating and sustaining the world. Occasionally, the trinity of God is revealed in an audible and visible body. For example, at the time of the baptism, on Matthew 3:16-17, he made it clear that there are three bodies: the Father who made a sound from heaven, the Holy Spirit who came down in the form of a dove, and the Son who stood in the middle of the Jordan in human flesh, and the three bodies have three names: Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And to see how the names were distinguished-  In heaven, "This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased." His fatherhood is known and called Father. And he said that Jesus is my son, so he is called son. It is clearly written that the one who came down in the form of a dove is the Holy Spirit as the Spirit of God, so we call the Trinity three by name. 

2.  Also, "Go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you" is a powerful word that expresses unity and trinity indicating their name. (Matthew 28:19)

(to be continued)👇

--- id:7 | date:2022-12-04T17:25:16 ---
(continued part)👇👆

3.   "I and the Father are one. He who has seen me has seen the Father. Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me?" (John 14:9:10)

4.  Prophet Malachi said in his prophecy, "Do we not all have one father?" Didn't one God create us? He said that God is one in creating. (Mal 2:10)

5.  The prophet Iyasas said, "He is the God who created the heavens, who made the earth and established it... God says this. "I am God and there is no other besides me," he wrote emphasizing that God is one in creating and ruling.

A Christian who does not believe in the unity and trinity of the Trinity will never find the forgiveness of sins and the hope of heaven.

The Trinity brought all visible and invisible creations from non-existence into existence and created them.
The Trinity, was existing before the world, their charactor praising one another, and still is, and will forever. However, it is explained in the holy books that they created men and angels to inherit their glory in order to praise their name so that their glory would not remain in their character. But we understand the other creation to be created for memory, memory, food, meat, and soul. They appointed the human being as the first-born ruler of all creatures on earth. (Ps 8:6)

--- id:8 | date:2022-12-04T17:25:16 ---
The identity of Jesus Christ in Orthodox Tewahedo beliefs and teachings

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance website; Based on the topic, we have sent you the following basic lesson, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

Understanding the identity of Jesus Christ is the foundation of the Christian faith. Because "Christian" means a Christian, a disciple of Christ. Anyone who does not know Christ cannot be called a disciple of Christ. So who is Christ?

It was Jesus Christ himself who asked who the Christ was. He asked them the twelve psalms and the question and the answer are as follows.

Jesus came to the camp of Caesarea Philippi and his disciples. Who do people call the son of man? he asked them. But they said, some John the Baptist, others Elijah, others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. Jesus said to them. Who do you say I am? And Simon Peter answered. You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. Jesus answered and said to him. O Simon, son of Jonah, blessed are you, for flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father in heaven. And I say unto thee, Thou art Peter. And upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven. Whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. (Matthew 16:13-19)

So, from this question and answer, we can understand that the people of the time when the Son of God called "Jesus" appeared in the flesh of Adam, more or less believed in Jesus as a prophet. It could be understood that he was not a prophet, apart from his work, even from the words he used to speak. When prophets teach, because they are sent from God and it is God who sent them, they say, "Thus saith God." But since Christ is the God who sent the prophets to tell you to speak like this, and the words he spoke were his own, he said, "But I tell you," "I tell you the truth, the truth." This is proof that he is not a prophet, but the God of prophets. In addition, he took three of his disciples (Peter, John, and James) and climbed Mount Tabor to show them that Jesus Christ is not a prophet, but the God of prophets. Among the prophets, he brought Moses from the grave and Elijah from the living. (Matthew 17:1-3) However, there are still many to whom the identity of Jesus has not been revealed.

So who is Jesus?

From the question and answer above, we clearly understand that Jesus is the son of man and the son of God. Because when Jesus asked about himself, he said, "Who do they call the Son of Man?" Saint Peter replied, "You are the son of the living God." Therefore, as Christ is the son of God, he is God. As a human being, he is human. The Orthodox Tewahedo Church is founded on the belief of St. Peter, the Only Son, so it teaches Christ as a perfect God and a perfect man. If the Son of Man is called a man, then the Son of God is God. If it is God, then it is God. For there is no god but God. He is the creator, for there is no creator other than God. He is a judge because there is no true judge other than God. Therefore, we believe that Jesus is: 1/ Perfect Man, Perfect God, 2/ Creator, 3/ God, 4/ God, 5/ Judge. We will look at these in detail one by one

(to be continued)

--- id:11 | date:2022-12-08T21:19:27 ---
God bless you for the question, because our Fathers do they have a saying"meteyek yadergal lik "it means who asks will be Master. So the main difference between Orthodox and other Christianity like Catholic & others is dogmatic.1-How to accept Jesus Christ-For us for orthodoxiansJesus Christ is the Almighty God,who created all visible &invisible world(John1:1-3)who said"I'll born from ur son of the son and save U.And the LORD God said,"behold the man(Adam)is become as one of us, to know Good & the evil."Genesis3:22,compare with John1:3-14.Jesus is the son of God,and the son of saint Mary,absolute God,Absolute Man(without sin ).He is one if the Trinity.He is the Almighty spirit, even with flesh (Lukas4:29-30).Jesus is the prophecy of prophets. Jesus is the preaching of Apostles.Jesus  is the Holly saviour.Jesus is God who has been with us in Absolute unity(And the Word became flesh,and dwelt among us full of Grace & truth ).

Our Lord Jesus Christ for Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahido Church is one of the Trinity Body who was & is Glorified,Praised iqually together with the Almighty Father & Holy spirit,before the creation of the world and forever.
When we say threebess & Unity of God,is just like a sun,that has threeness.A-(1-circle part of the sun body 2-The Light of the sun 3-The heat of the sun,these 3 parts of the sun doesn't make the sun 3 Suns, but 1 Sun )& unity/3 parts of the Sun,but one Sun not three/.
B-Like threeness & unity of an Atom.(three parts of Atom,proton,electron and neotron.These 3 parts of Atom doesn't make it 3 Atoms,but one Atom)so Atom is One and three.Just like these examples,God is One and three,as revealed Himself to Abraham (Genesis18:1-18)

According to the Ethiopian Ortodox Tewahido Church Our Lord Jesus Christ is Absolute God, Absolute Man. That means, He does everything with Holy sprit.John9:1-10 healed a blind man,with His spittle.Who spat on the ground is Jesus,and Who healed the blind is Himself(BETEWAHIDO)/Flesh & God/together/,not separatedly,as it is thought in Catholic & other churchs.
That is why we say Jesus is the Allmignty God.At the beginning there was a Word,and The Word was with God,and that Word was God...All things were made by him,and without him was not made any thing made,that was  made.In him was life;and the life was the light of men.The light was shineth in the darkness;and darkness was comprehended it not...14And the Word made flesh;dwelt among us full of grace and truth.
to be continued

to be continuing

--- id:12 | date:2022-12-12T20:04:18 ---
4. Jesus Christ is the creator

(continued part)

✍The apostle Saint John the Evangelist has made two things very clear to us: - 1. Jesus Christ is God; 2. Jesus Christ is the Creator. Saying that: - "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God... All things came into being through Him, and without Him nothing came into being." (John 1:1-3) 

✍When St. John explains that Jesus is the Creator, he says, "All things were made through him." This means that the heavens were made by him, the earth was made by him, the creatures in the heavens and the earth, as well as those in the sea and the deep, the visible and the invisible were made or created by him.

✍As St. John said 'All things were made by him'  St. Paul has also explained it this way to indicate that everything was created by him (the Son, Word): "Since ancient times, God has spoken to our fathers in many ways through the prophets, and he has spoken to us at the end of this age in his Son, who made all things heir and created the ages." (Hebrews 1:1) He used it to mean "the one who created all creation" because there is no being that cannot be measured by time.

✍Saint Paul also said, "We have one God the Father, from whom all things are to us, and we are to him, and we have one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things are and we are through him." (1st Cor. 8:6) Here, the saying that all things were made by him and we are made by him is said to both the Father and the Son, which shows that the Father and the Son are one in creating the creation. 

✍The Arians say that the Father first created the Son and then the Son created other creatures; and our Bible contradicts their idea by saying, "God first created the heavens and the earth." (Genesis 1:1) In the statement that God created the heavens and the earth, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are also mentioned. Because 'God' is the Unity name of their Trinity. Therefore, to believe that the Son alone created the worlds is a mistake in itself. Rather, it is necessary to believe that the worlds were created in the Word of the Son. In other word, worlds were not created without Word of the Son without the breath of the Holy Spirit, without the heart of the Father.   In fact, believing that there is 'God' in the name 'Jesus', and the Father, Son and Holy Spirit in the name God, there will be no problem if we say that the worlds were created by Jesus.

✍Arians call the Son a creature due to wrongly understanding the parable of sage of Solomon  "God made me the beginning of the way ... When he laid the foundation of the earth, I was his chief worker, and my joy was in the earth, and in the children of men .    (Proverbs 8:22-23). The first thing these heretics do not understand is the difference between birth and creation.  Besides, they also do not understand that "I was a worker" does not mean that he has an "employer" but that it simply means he has a job. One is to mean "I was a maker/creator" and one is also to say that what was intended by the heart of the Father was spoken and fulfilled by the Word of the Son. So, what this word of the Bible tells us is that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, not a creature. If it is the Son of charactor, then as we cannot create what we beget just as we cannot say that we beget anything that we have made with our hands, so the Father cannot be called the creator of the Son, but begets the Son. And if we say that he is the father of charactor, we do not say that he created, but that he begot. In other words, to call the Son a creature is to call the Father a creature. and this leads us to be lost in a big mistake because Jesus has clearly told us, "I and the Father are one." (John 10:30)

(to be continued)👇

--- id:13 | date:2022-12-12T20:04:18 ---
4. Jesus Christ is the creator

(continued part)👆👇

✍The Apostle St. Paul said that the worlds were created with the word "let it be". The Word of the Trinity is the Son, so we must realize that the Word of the Son is not only for the Son himself, but also for the Father and the Holy Spirit. St. Paul also said, "He is the type of the invisible God.

✍The visible and the invisible, whether they are thrones or lordships or principalities or powers in heaven and on earth, everything was created by him before all creation. All things were created by him and for him." trhough this, he explained to us that Jesus Christ is the creator. (Colossians 1:15-16)

✍In addition, when St. Paul reinforces his thoughts, he mentions what was written by the prophet David and pointed out that what David wrote was about Jesus, he said about his son, "You laid the foundations of the earth from the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish, but you will remain steadfast." They all age like clothes, you wrap them up like a cloak and they change, but you are you and your years never end," he wrote to us. (Hebrews 1:10-12, Psalm 101:25-27)

✍As the prophet Isaiah said, "Thus says the Lord who made you from the womb and redeems you: I am the one who stretched out the heavens by myself and established the earth. Who was with me?" It says" (Isaiah 44:24) It is God who said that I created the world alone. And in the name God there is a trinity of names: Father, Son, Holy Spirit. However, their trinity is in body, in name, in task; but they are one in will and power in creating  and passing the world.  So It has been said 'I created alone' . We can understand from this word that when God created the worlds, there was no worker or collaborator, and that the worlds were created by one Will and Power as three names, tasks, and bodies. And the name God expresses Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, which usually speaks of Unity.

👉Therefore, Jesus Christ who is called God together with the Father and the Holy Spirit, and who existed before ages, is now, and will live through ages, is not a creature, but a creator. As it is said "I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Lord God who is and who was and who is to come." (Revelation 1:8)

5. Jesus is perfect God

(to be continued)👇

--- id:18 | date:2022-12-18T06:45:02 ---
5. Jesus is perfect God (Lord) /Amlak

(continued part)👆👇

The word God (Amlak) is Geez word and its meaning  is ruler, creator, helper, shepherd, the one who created and rules the world, who has no other ruler than him.

As we have seen above, the Apostle St. John said in his Gospel, "All things came into being through Him, and nothing came into being without Him." (John 1:3) We have already seen that this means that the heavens and the earth were created by him. In his first message, St. John said, "He is the true God and eternal life, and he has explained to us the unity of divine power and character of Jesus Christ with the Father and the Holy Spirit." (1 John 5:21) Therefore, to know the divinity of Jesus Christ, it is enough to know that Jesus is God and the Creator. (Ps 17:31) For more evidence, we will quote from the prophecies of the prophets, the gospel of Christ and the testimony of the apostles as follows:

Prophet Isaiah is the first among the prophets who spoke a very clear and open   prophecy about the descent and birth of Jesus Christ. First, he said, "The Lord himself will give you a sign. Behold, a virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and she will call his name Immanuel." (Isaiah 7:14) Then he said, "For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the leadership shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called the mighty God, the everlasting father, the prince of peace." (Isa 9:6) It is not debatable that it was said about Jesus. Even if there are those who argue that it is not about Jesus, the evangelist Saint Matthew wrote us the answer. "By the prophet from the Lord, behold, a virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call his name Immanuel. All this has happened so that what is said will be fulfilled. The interpretation is that God (God) has been with us." (Matthew 1:22-23)

The apostle Saint John said in one of his messages, "We know that the Son of God has come, and that he has given us the understanding to know what is true." ... His son is Jesus Christ, who is the true God and eternal life." Isaiah saw and testified to the truth of what he prophesied, and clearly spoke to us of his Sonship of God, his divinity and his divinity. (1st John 5:20-21) When the prophet Jesus said that there is no God and Creator other than God, he said, "Do not be afraid and do not be alarmed, did I not tell you from the beginning?" Or did I not show you? You are my witnesses. Is there any god besides me? There is no shelter, I don't know anyone," he wrote to us. (Isaiah 44:8)
As we have seen above, Jesus is God. And God is the creator. (Genesis 1:1, 1:26) If God is God (Amlak), He is God, for He said, "There is no other God besides Me." (Deuteronomy 20:3) God who created the heavens and made the earth and established it... thus says I am God and there is no other besides me.

6. Jesus is the Judge

(to be continued)

--- id:19 | date:2022-12-18T06:45:02 ---
5. Jesus is the judge

(continued part)👆👇

The meaning of judgment is to distinguish, separate, distinguish all according to their deeds:- evil and good, legal and illegal, sinful and righteous. Judgment is traditionally given to earthly judges, but the authority is God's alone. Because it is only God who knows in advance what they think in their heart, what they walk in their conscience without needing human evidence and testimony, and who can give each person the value they deserve. When David spoke of God's judgment in Psalms, "The heavens declare righteousness, for God is the judge." He said. (Ps 50:6) In another psalm, he said, "For God is a judge, he humbles this and honors that." (Ps 75:7) Although it is not appropriate to repeat it because we have seen above that Jesus means God, but to strengthen this and make it more clear, we will also see here below that Jesus is a judge too.

It is enough evidence that judgment is the work of our Lord, our Savior Jesus Christ, that at the time of his second coming, the Lord will place sinners on his left and the righteous on his right, and that he will give heaven to the righteous and hell to the wicked. "When the Son of Man comes in his glory ... all the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them one from another as a shepherd separates his sheep from his goats." He will make the sheep on his right and the goats on his left.” so that (Matthew 24:31-46) Here the sheep and the goats are the sinner and the righteous. It is written there that the left and the right are hell and heaven. If this is the work of Christ, then Christ is the judge. And if he is the judge, then it means that He is God.

But some do not understand this and say that Jesus is a mediator and not a judge. And when they say from whom does he intercede, they say from the Father. After all, who is the father? Do they have a difference? "He who has seen me has seen the Father, I and the Father are one" doesn't he say? And when they are told, they put it as if  the Bible contradicts itself by citing other verses. However, the Bible does not contradict itself anywhere, unless they do not properly understand its interpretation and mystery. The word does not say 'the Father judges, the Son mediates', but "the Father judges not even one person, but gives all judgment to the Son". (John 5:23) Even so, when we look this word  separately, it seems that only the Son is the judge while the Father and the Holy Spirit seems observers. But no, when the Bible raises one of the three body, namely the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, it is putting in mind that all three are one in authority. For example, when the great prophets Moses spoke about creation, he told us, "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth" (Genesis 1:1). The apostles Saint John and Saint Paul also say that the worlds were created by the Word of the Son. (Hebrews 1:1, Hebrews 1:1)

Therefore, in the words "he gave all judgment to the Son", the word "son" is to say that the Son is the Word of the Trinity; and that judgment is spoken verbally; but it is not to say that judgment belongs only to the Son. Instead, he means that He will appear in glory as a judge and gave the power of ruling and judging to the Son. Because the Father and the Holy Spirit did not take on human flesh. And one: Because the Son is the Word of the Trinity, and judgment is spoken by words, therefore it is said that he gave judgment to the Son.

--- id:20 | date:2022-12-18T06:45:02 ---
5. Jesus is the judge

(continued part)👆👇

Therefore, the apostle St. John wrote to us what the Lord had revealed to him in a vision: "Behold, I am coming quickly and my reward is with me to repay each one according to his work." (Revelation 22:12) When St. Paul said that at the end of his earthly life, he would receive the price of his service from the hands of Christ, "There is a crown prepared for me in the future, and the Lord, who is the righteous judge, will hand it over to me on that day; and he also said that it is not only for me, but for all who love His revelation." (2 Tim 4:8) It is judgment to give the righteous the price of their righteousness and the sinner the price of their iniquity. Therefore, it means that Jesus is the judge, and if he is the judge, he is God, and if he is God, then he is the creator and God.

6. If Jesus is a judgmental God, how did he receive the death penalty?

(to be continued)

--- id:21 | date:2022-12-18T06:45:02 ---
6. If Jesus is a judgmental God, how did he receive the death penalty?

(continued part)

Among the questions that many believers and heretics raise, why did Jesus die? takes precedence. The tendency of those who question this is to say that Jesus is not almighty God but a creature. It is possible to answer the question with a question by saying: - if he is a being, how did he conquer death and get up?  For there is no one among creatures who has died of his own will and has conquered death by his power. When we look at it broadly, why did Jesus Christ come? suddenly or on purpose? If it came with a purpose, what was the purpose? It is imperative to clarify the question.

Jesus Christ came to this earth with a plan and purpose. Its aims are exemplary and redemptive. Redemption means that Jesus shed his blood and broke his body to free Adam from the slavery of the devil and the citizenship of hell. Without being born of the Virgin Mary, without being baptized, without fasting, without being crucified, and without suffering all that, he could have done everything by his word alone. But the human being learns good and bad things from the human being himself, in order to teach human beings the way of life not by words but by deeds, he came to this earth by being born as a human being and doing everything that a human does except sin, and teaching us not to sin but to do righteousness (to be an example).

For example, after Jesus Christ was baptized by his servant John in the Jordan River, he made a law saying that whoever believed and was baptized would be saved, he entered the monastery of Corinth and after fasting for forty days and forty nights, he taught that when you fast, you should not be seen as hypocrites. After teaching by day and praying by night at Debrezeit, he warned us not to enter into temptation and pray. Finally, he washed the feet of the apostles and taught humility by saying, "Do to others as I have done to you." "For I have given you an example that you should do as I have done for you." (John 13:15)

For those who ask us why Christ died, another answer to their question will be why Christ was born. Adam was created and we Adamites are born from Adam to live forever. But Christ was born to die. What we should note about this is that birth and creation are very different things. For there is creation in our birth. But it should not be created at the birth of Jesus Christ. For He is eternal without beginning and without end. "I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end." (Revelation 22:13)

So God brought us from non-existence to existence so that we might praise his name and inherit his glory and live forever. But when we, who were created to live, chose death instead of life, shame instead of honor, sorrow instead of happiness, and when we were expelled from heaven and descended to hell, God took our debt and sin upon himself, accepted the death sentence which we deserved, and returned us to our former glory. He died in order to achieve this goal, not by accident or by others' coercion. The Lord said that his death was by his will and his resurrection was under his authority. (Joh 10:15-18) The mystery of his crucifixion is to give us life. "Just as Moses revealed the serpent in the wilderness, so the Son of Man deserves to be crucified so that everyone who believes in him will not perish but have eternal life." (John 3:14-15)

--- id:23 | date:2022-12-21T21:40:18 ---
👉🏾 Question: I am #depressed and #lonely most of the time. Life has no meaning to me. I just want to die and live with Jesus. I have been looking for #happiness all my life but I have never found it. I feel like my mind is about to explode. Please pray for me. I need your prayers. What do you #advice me??

Answer: I wish that God's peace stays with you. The only way that a human gets peace and happiness is to believe that Our Lord Jesus Christ, who was born in Bethlehem from our mother Saint Virgin Mary, is the Almighty God. The creator of the visible and invisible in this world. The one the prophets spoke that He came to save us from satan, evil things, and sins. The one who the disciples preached that He was crucified to give us everlasting life by His flesh and death. He is the one who rose after 3 days from the tomb and revealed himself to Madgelon Mariam/Mary and all his disciples at different times. He, the one who ascended to heaven, will come again with graciousness to judge the people (Isaiah 3:13).

What must I do?
1. Believe in Jesus Christ as Almighty God.
2. Believe in Jesus Christ as who judges on people, not who maketh the intersection for us.
3. Believe in Jesus Christ as the world's Holly Savior.
4. Believe Jesus Christ as “The everlasting Father, Prince of Peace” (Isaiah 9:6).
5. Believe that Saint Virgin Mary is our spiritual Mother who is given to us from our Lord Jesus Christ (Psalm 87:5 & John19:27)
6. Believe that saints, prophets, disciples, Archbishops, Priests...etc as they maketh intersections for us, through their prayers.
7. Pray every day to the Lord God (Mat 6:13, 26:41, Daniel 6:16). 
8. Love all human beings without a difference as Jesus Christ loved us all despite our sins, weakness, and flaws.
9. Read the Bible every day (one verse a day or a chapter a day depending on what you can) and spiritual books as they will explain the spiritual life and experiences of Orthodox scholars. Listen to Orthodox Tewahedo Hymns. 
10. Ask advice from church Fathers/ priests, and if you don’t have access to them, reach them through social media, or talk to your brothers and sisters in Christ.
11. Go to the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahido Church every day, if not as much as possible, and participate in spiritual ceremonies, liturgy, Annual celebrations...etc 

Try these and you will see changes in your spiritual and secular life. Always know that the Lord is with you! Always seek Him, and you, our sister, will find Him. Isaiah 41:10 

“Fear not, for I am with you; Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you, Yes, I will help you, I will uphold you with My righteous right hand.”


No money will give us happiness, no Authority will give us happiness, no beauty will give us peace, no fame will give us everlasting Love. No knowledge of sciences nor technology will give us everlasting peace and happiness. Happiness is possible only with the Almighty God Jesus Christ. We will keep you in our prayers and please continue to reach out to us.

You can find more spiritual lessons and answers to questions on our website: yohannesneseha.org

--- id:33 | date:2022-12-27T11:05:07 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

👉🏾 Question from member: I often feel depressed and lonely. Life has no meaning to me, I just want to die and live with Jesus, I've been looking for happiness all my life but I can't find it, I feel like my mind is going to explode, please pray for me, I need prayer, what do you recommend?

✍️Answer:- Why does a person choose loneliness? Why does a person hide? In essence, man is not happy without God, because there is no peace without God. Jesus Christ said in the Gospel of John, chapter 14, verse 27, "Peace I leave with you, and my peace I give you, the peace I give you is not as the world gives; do not let your hearts be troubled, do not be afraid."
 
The world kisses us today then bites tomorrow; gives today then takes away tomorrow. But God does not take away what He has given, no matter what, there is no peace without God. What is life? Life is the opposite of death, life is living. Life is God, it is written, "Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life."
 
Therefore, if we believe in the Son, we live with Jesus who is the life. It is Jesus Christ who gave life when human beings could not live according to the commandment, it is Jesus Christ who enlightened the dark world. In fact, this Christmas (birth) season is called the light. And if it is said who is the light: it is Jesus Christ.

This world was dark before God the Son became a man. The world lived in darkness. It is called light because God became a man and enlightened the world by making us members of His body. Many people's lives are in darkness. Darkness is sin, darkness is betrayal, darkness is hatred, darkness is lack of love; On the other hand, light is Jesus Christ, light is life, light is religion, light is peace, light is help, blessing and love. Because it is our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who gave us that, there is no life without Jesus Christ.
 
As the owner himself told us, John Gospel chapter 15 verse 5 said "without me you can do nothing", so without Jesus Christ nothing can be done. How can peace be found without Jesus Christ? How can you live? Absolutely not possible. When Judas betrayed Jesus Christ for 30 dollars he died because he was separated from Jesus Christ who is life. We remember that when the devil was once the archangel, when he forgot God and said, "I am the creator," and then failed and separated from God who is life.

Also, when Adam lived peacefully in paradise for seven years and did what he was told not to do, he lost peace from God who is life, and found it difficult to live. but then we remember that he found peace when he returned to God, when he reconciled with God, so there is no peace without God.
 
Our questioner said that they want to die and live with Jesus Christ. So, those of us who do not have peace on earth, those who have fallen into sin on earth, those who have not tried to repent to find Jesus Christ, how can we find peace if we die? What qualifies us for the kingdom of heaven is the work we have done on earth to live with Jesus Christ and enable us to live in heaven. If we die on earth covered in sin, without repentance, confession, and reconciliation with God, we will not be able to live with Jesus. Therefore, it means that we cannot live with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ before we repent. 

(to be continued)👇

--- id:34 | date:2022-12-27T11:05:07 ---
An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

(continued part)👆👇

Our dear member told us that their mind is going to explode. It is God who gives us peace of mind. 
The mind wants shelter, it wants peace but the conscience blames it. For example, a person knows that stealing is bad before learning to steal, knows that killing is bad before learning to kill. Our consciousness tells us what is good and bad because that is the way it was created; Man is a creature created to distinguish good from evil, evil from good, and what is useful from what is not. 

Therefore, we must all seek life, and if we are willing to find life, we can repent of our sins and find God; God is near, God is love. "You return and I will return," God is not a cruel father who tells you to stay where you left. What He told us is  those of you who have fallen come back to me, . God is a compassionate and merciful father.
 
First He created us in His image, we humans failed to live, we fell, we were the kings of creation but because of our sin we fell from our glory; He came back in search of us, born of the Holy Virgin Mary as a man. After that, he paid many prices for us, to bring back our exiled ones, he was exiled for us, then He was whipped with 6666 lashes, crucified in the square of Calvary, to bring us back what we lost and even more. He gave us his holy body and his precious blood. Eat my flesh, drink my blood, that he may bring us back with food that we have fallen by eating, there is no greater life than this.

Even after He has conquered death,  He told us that  if you fall into sin, even if you make a mistake, repent and come to Me. Therefore, what is needed to live with God is to persevere in his house until the end, it is necessary to continuously take part of his holy body and his precious blood, the Eucharist. 
 
As we have said so far, life means living with God, and what is needed to live with God is to first repent. Therefore, may God help us all who have fallen into sin to repent, stay in the house until the end of our lives, receive His holy body and his precious blood, and live with God in his house.
 
Praise be to God, the Virgin Mother and the cross.
 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:148 | date:2022-12-28T15:00:01 ---


--- id:152 | date:2022-12-28T15:01:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 December 28 (ታኅሳስ 19) - The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; As mentioned in the title, we have sent you the following important lesson about the anniversary of the Archangel Gabriel, which is celebrated on December 28, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

St. Gabriel is the 2nd ranked angel power after St. Michael among the 7 archangels. He is described in the scriptures equally as the Archangel Michael in his intercession and mediation. Gabriel means servant and messenger of God. He is given this mysterious name because it is often revealed in the form of a human being and conveys God's message or God's will to mankind. In the place where the angels were created, when God, who created them, disappeared from their eyes in an instant to ensure the stability of their religion. Then question arose in the society of angels: 'Who created us?', 'Where did we come from?'  At this time, the father of destruction, the devil, boldly and defiantly said, "I have created you." But the angel Saint Gabriel calmed down the association of countless holy angels by saying that we should stand firm where we are. Because of this, as it is written on John 1:14, 'The Word became flesh', he was chosen to announce to the Virgin that the Son of God  will come down from heaven and be born as a man from the Virgin Mary. The angel Gabriel said to the her, "Behold, you will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will call his name Jesus. He is great. He will be called the Son of the Most High (Luke 1:31). Now that we have learned something about the Archangel, we will proceed with today's feast. 

This is the miracle he performed on December 28th: Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael (Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego) from the furnace fire. If you ask how this happened, when they were living in captivity in Persian Babylon, King Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel the fourth and placed them in the palace to learn wisdom from Babylon. Meldar, their steward, offered them meat and wine in goblets. They said, "We will not eat this. Give us some grain and good water." He said to them, "If the king sees your weight loss, he will be angry." They said give us a date. He gave them 10 days. They ate grains and drank water, and they were more handsome and bright than those who ate meat and drank wine. While they were learning, the Lord revealed his wisdom to them and they became wise, especially Daniel who enterpreted the king's vision. Then because of this, the king appointed them in three states. But the Babylonians were jealous of this and thought of a reason to quarrel with the king. They said to the king, make a picture of yourself so you can distinguish between your friend and your enemy. He made a gold statue 60 cubits high and 6 cubits wide and placed it in the field of Aduran and proclaimed that those who do not bow to it will be punished. When everybody bowed down, they  (Ananya, Azariah, and Mishael) said, "We will not bow down." And the Babylonians went and told the king. The king then ordered they be brought before him for questioning. He asked them 'Do you say that we should not worship?' They said yes. 'Who will save you?' They said to him "the God that created us will save us." He kindled a fire, and the flame became 49 cubits.

After this, he selected the mighty ones and threw the three into the fire. The soldiers who pushed them to fire were burned but  for the three (Ananya, Azariah, Misael) the angel Gabriel came down and touched the fire with his rod, it turned into water. When the Babylonians saw that the fire was extinguished, they added more fire to it and activated the burn. But they (Ananya, Azariah, Mishael) spent the night singing praises to God without being burned.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:155 | date:2022-12-28T15:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 December 28 (ታኅሳስ 19) - The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

(continued part)👆👇

In the morning, when Nebuchadnezzar looked from his balcony, he saw four of them walking in the fire. Yesterday we tied three men and threw them out of the fiery furnace, but today I see four of them released  and walking in the fire. And immediately he went out of the oven and said to them, come out. They ran out. Not even an ash was found on their clothes. Nebuchadnezzar saw this and said, "Praise be to God, the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who sent his angel and saved the poor." 'King, do you think it's true? It was because of their magic' said the Babylonians. And the king said 'If by magic, save yourselves by your magic for there is none greater than you, and then added the Babylonians to the fire and burned them.

And the king returned the decree with a decree saying that there is no one who can save except the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. (Dan chapter 3)

👉🏾 In addition to the above, here are some of the main works of intercession and mediation that the angel Saint Gabriel is known for, which he performed by the grace given to him from the Creator:-

👉 1st/ He told the prophet Daniel in a vision about what was going to happen. 15:16)

👉 2. Also, in the vision that the prophet Daniel saw again, he said this about the angel, "While I was still praying, the angel I had seen in the vision before, Gabriel, came flying... He taught me and told me... Daniel, I have come now to give you wisdom and understanding" (Dan 9: 21-23)

👉 3rd / Saint Gabriel is the angel who saved Daniel from the lion's mouth.

👉 4th /  Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael from the furnace fire. 

👉 5th/ He announced to the priest Zacharias and Saint Elizabeth that they would give birth to John the Baptist in their old age.

👉 6. He announced to the Virgin Mary that the physical word Jesus Christ, who is the cure of the world, would be born from the her.

👉 7th/ He saved  St. Jeletan and the child Kirkos from a boiling fire in an iron tank. 

👉 8th/ He led the wise men to the city of Bethlehem where the Lord was born, leading them with the sign of a star.

👉 9th/ Old Joseph was told in a dream to take his mother and baby and flee to Egypt.

👉 10/ In addition, Saint Gabriel announced the conception of Samson; He brought forth water for Agar in the desert. He who interpreted the mystery to Daniel; He is an angel appointed over serpents and scorpions.

In general, we find this angel's intercession and guardianship in many readings of the holy books; God has helpes us to write to you on the occasion of the annual holiday that we celebrate today, December 28, so that we may all receive the intercession and blessings of the angel Saint Gabriel. 

Therefore, if the Lord God had not sent his angels to protect us night and morning, day and night, on the road, when we sleep at home and when we get up, Satan's army would have prevent us from having life in this world and the next .

God's prophet, Saint David, said, "No calamity will enter your house. He will raise up angels for you to guard you on your way. They will lift you up with their hands so that your feet will not stumble over a stone..." Telling us about the guardianship and protection of angels.

In another paragraph, he said, "God's angel will live around those who fear him, and will save them." He said that angels will save people who believe in the guardianship and intercession of angels, and that they will save us from physical and spiritual suffering. (Ps 33:7, 90/91:10')

Since angels are appointed to have authority over all creatures, the prophet Enoch told us about the power of intercessor and guardianship of Saint Gabriel saying that he is one of the noble angels appointed over the serpents, the righteous in heaven, and the cherubim. (Enoch 6:7)

May the prayers and supplications of this great angel of light rest upon us

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:245 | date:2022-12-31T15:30:31 ---
👉🏾 There is no #fornication #sin that I have not committed. But I am #afraid and #fearful to confess before a priest. 

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page, we encourage to ask questions on this page or send it to us privately. The following is a question that was sent to us privately, which you can do on Telegram by sending a message to the admin 'ዮሐንስ ንስሐ' or by sending us an email at yohannes.neseha@gmail.com. Since we all face similar struggles in life, we can all learn from one another. Hence we entrust you all to read and learn from the answers we give. 

👉Question:- I had a question and I need your sincere help: I have committed many sins in my life, especially the sin of adultery, I have committed adultery with many women, with animals, with a married person and with a relative. I want to confess my sins to a spiritual father but how can I say these things in front of him?

✍️Answer:- It would have been better if we hadn't made a mistake and fallen into sin in the first place, but after we fall, repenting and coming back is a must. If a person falls into sin, how can it be difficult for him to repent? We should never feel overwhelmed or afraid. Basically, if we don't get embarrassed when we do it, how can it be difficult for us to say it? When we sin, we are dying, but when we repent, we are being saved. Therefore, the one and only choice choice we have not to live a life hunted by sin nor to receive the wages of our sins is to repent.

When a person is ashamed to talk about their sins, they run away from repentance, pile sin on top of sin, and keep the door wide open for more sin.

The rightous deeds or sin that a person does every day is written in God's record. Therefore, a person should watch and control their deeds, humbly continue the good, and confess the bad every day. Otherwise, since we don't know the day we will be called, we need to be ready every day, lest we hear the words, 'Depart from me' on the day of judgment.

When a person commits a sin, they usually pretend that they have benefited and are happy, but later the results are not beneficial. In factz it is harmful, it does not give peace, it creates chaos and lack of peace. When they do it, they do it knowingly, but when they are about to speak and repent, it seems to them a shame. This is a hindrance to repentance which is the method that is most commonly used by the devil to prolong the time for people to repent and to keep them in sin and to prevent them from revealing the secrets of sin that he practices secretly and the methods he used to make them captives of sin.

Among the ways of salvation that Satan fights against, there is nothing greater than repentance. Repentance destroys all the buildings of sin that the enemy, the devil, has built to destroy the lives of Christians. Repentance wipes out all sins - This is a great mystery that is performed by the grace of God. 

We are humiliated when we first commit the sin, and we are glorified when we say and confess the sin we have committed. By sinning, we were dirty, damaged, defiled, but when we repent, we are being sanctified, freed and glorified. 

The idea that our dear member raised is one which many people do either without knowing, without thinking it is bad, or knowingly, influenced by peers or by satanic entertainment industries. Later, they find it difficult to get out as easily as they entered it. Whichever it may be, by sinning, we lose God, by sinning, by sinning we live in darkness, and darkness is Sheol, eternal fire.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:246 | date:2022-12-31T15:33:11 ---
👉🏾 There is no #fornication #sin that I have not committed. But I am #afraid and #fearful to confess before a priest. 

(Continued part) 👆

Our dear member stated, “I am ashamed to express the wrongs I have done to a confession father.”

But yet, repentance is to regret what we have done; it is saying that "I have done things that aren’t expected of a believer of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ." It is to say that we should accuse/judge ourselves before being accused by other people. It starts when a person accuses themselves, when they reveal their secrets to themselves, and when they are ashamed of what they have done in the past. It is followed by confessing our sins with heartfelt regrets before God. We should not be ashamed or embarrassed when we confess our sins as we were not ashamed or embarrassed when we were doing it because when we were doing the wrongdoings, we were dying but with confession, we are making reconciliation with God, and we are being saved. We are coming from death to life and coming out of darkness to light. It is a way that we are starting to live together with God. 

When we go to a confession father to repent for what we have done, we are admitting our hate for the sins and deciding that we would not do them again. St. Paul wrote, in 1 Corinthians 11: 31, “For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judges.” Repentance is when we, the sinners, judge ourselves and our sins. Therefore, what our questioner mentioned to us will be an answer for all of us, to say that we should be ashamed of our sins, repent, and decide not to do it again, but we should not be afraid to confess our sins to our fathers and repent.

Acts 3:19, St Paul wrote, “Repent therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord.” 
Matthew 9:13 also mentions, “...For I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners, ]to repentance.”  Therefore, it is the sinner who needs repentance. Our brothers and sisters, you must understand that no matter how serious our sins are, we must come to God in repentance, believing that we will be forgiven and that we will be cleansed. We have the opportunity to choose a confession father or a spiritual father who is a true guardian, mentor, and teacher. You are expected to state your repentance in detail without being ashamed or embarrassed by your sins to your spiritual father. As said in the book, the priest means the grave, because the grave does not reveal everything, and the priest does not speak about anyone's sin, he should be a secret keeper.

Just as water washes the cleanest and the dirtiest, without discrimination, so should the Priest wash away the sins of the child indiscriminately, and not speak of the sins he hears. Perhaps, if there is a Priest who speaks, he is responsible to God, not us. But since we are told to go and examine ourselves to the priest, it means that we should go and confess our sins to our repentance father. It is God who commanded us to confess our sins. It is written in Matthew chapter 8:4 "And Jesus said to him, “See that you tell no one; but go your way, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.” So, we advise our fellow members to do as it is told. If in case you don't have a father of repentance, no Christian should spend a day without a father of repentance. Having a father of repentance and repenting is a spiritual obligation. And so we advise you to look for a spiritual father, talk to the head priest of your parish, and consult with friends and family who have a father of repentance. You may also reach out to us and we will assist you in this regard if you can't find a sheppard for your soul nearby.

What to do to get rid of the spirit of adultery?

(to be continued)

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:271 | date:2023-01-03T08:31:10 ---
👉🏾 About #sin #confession and #age 

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page, we encourage to ask questions on this page or send it to us privately. The following is a question that was sent to us privately, which you can do on Telegram by sending a message to the admin 'ዮሐንስ ንስሐ' or by sending us an email at yohannes.neseha@gmail.com. Since we all face similar struggles in life, we can all learn from one another. Hence we entrust you all to read and learn from the answers we give. 

👉 Question: Hello father, I have a question. Do we have to confess sins we unknowingly did as a child (under the age of 18)?

Answer: The answer is yes we have to. If we remember a sin we did, we should tell it to our father of repentance, we should repent for it. There is healing and peace of mind that comes with communicating all our shortcomings with our father of repentance. 

We have to confess for all the sins we did after the age of 7 because that is the age that is set by our fathers. That is the age that a person starts differentiating good from evil. Even though a 7 years old is not required to fast like a 40 years old, they are required to start with the basics, abstaining from meat during the fasting seasons for example.

Our church starts our spiritual training from day one. Note that at the time of baptism, 40 days for boys and 80 days for girls, children abstain from their mother's breast milk until they have partaken from the holy Eucharist. This is for them to start learning to fast, start abbyding by the laws and orders of the Church, to start living Orthodox. Recall that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ went straight to fasting in the desert of Corinth after he was baptized. And so since the Church's basis is Jesus Christ, the Church teaches her members to fast from ever since they are regenerated through water and the Holy Spirit (after the are baptized). Hence the reason why they fast after they are baptized is for them to learn how to live by the structure, order and laws of the Church. Therefore, how can we say that we don't have to repent for the sins we have commited before the age of 18 while we started our spiritual training from day 1? We should confess all sins we recall because if we recall it, then we did it knowingly which means we were conscious of what we were doing. If there is anything that we recall, we should confess it which is how we will get complete peace. What is the benefit of carrying our sins with us? Let us breathe it out, this will benefit us in many ways but won't harm us in any. 

May God help us confess all our sins so we can stay in His house until the last breathe and inherit His Kingdom. 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:290 | date:2023-01-03T20:32:45 ---
👉🏾 About #repentance, #confessin, #giving #up and #hope 

How to overcome repeated sin and discouragement?

👉🏾Question: How does one overcome feelings of defeat and discouragement when falling into the same sin continually?
How to accept God's love and grace and not give up / lose hope with struggles that come with my journey with God? 
I tend to fall short of the goals I set for myself in spiritual life and the discouragement / feeling depressed about that holds me back from making progress. 

Thank you and May God bless your service! 

👉 Answer: This is a very important question because a lot of people confess their sins many times and go back to it many times. The main cause of this is not knowing what sin is and not understanding the depths of it's consequences. 

If a person confess their sins without understand what sin is, they will most likely fall back into it. If a person confesses their sins without understanding the benefits of repentance, it will be very hard for them to come back to repentance.

Hence we first need to learn about sin, it's consequences and the benefits of repentance. We need to learn from people that have fallen into sin, we need to know that sin separates us from God, sin deprives us from peace, sin brings curses to our lives, sin is the worst thing one can do. 

People who have fallen into sin have lost God, lost blessings, lost peace, lost life and can't even get alone with themselves. That is why Adam and Eve had a hard time living together after they fell into sin. Adam had asked Eve to get away from him, to depart form him accusing her to be the reason of his fall. People who have fallen into sin can't live with others nor be comfortable in their own skin. That is why Judas of Iscariot, who sold our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ with $30 thought that he was doing good for himself, that he would live but he couldn't. He threw away the money, hanged himself up on a tree and died after suffering for 40 days. Hence we need to understand that people trapped in sin can't live with God, with others nor with themselves. This, we have to believe before confessing. 

One needs to understand the depths of sin's consequences, and also understand the benefits of repentance. We need to learn from people who changed their lives and were healed through repentance. It is only then that we will have not repeatedly fall back to sin. 

We need to believe that everything is possible with God and nothing without Him. On Matthew 21:21, our Lord tells us "if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but also if you say to this mountain, ‘Be removed and be cast into the sea,’ it will be done." Hence why do we give up? We are winners in Christ, we fall and we get back up but we should never give up, why do we give up? Are we not the ones He created in His own image? Are we not the ones whom He appointed as rulers over creatures? It is us that He has delivered from the bondage of the devil by becoming one of us, it is for us that He has given his Holy Blood and Holy Flesh. It is for us that is given the interception of the apostles, the prophets, the angels, the saints, the virgins, the monks, our Lady Virgin Mary and others. Hence how can we give up? It is for us that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ established the mystery of Repentance so we can be reconciled with Him if we fall. Hence we do not give up. The holy water, the cross, the priests, the gospel, the prayer books, the advisors, the teachers, the fasts, prostration and countless more are ours. Hence how can we give up? We don't!

(To be continued) 👇

--- id:291 | date:2023-01-03T20:36:21 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

The biggest and most gravious temptation of the devil is to make us give up. But we Christians never give up. Let us recall a story of a monk: There was a father who repeatedly sinned and repeatedly confessed. Then the devil said to him: "Are you not ashamed? Everyday you sin and everyday you confess it, you go to your spiritual father and confess the sin knowing you will fall tomorrow as well." Then this father said to him: "You that have no repentance, you that do not wish to be reconciled with God, you be ashamed but how can I be ashamed since repentance was established for me". Truly, repentance was established for us so we shouldn't give up.

The devil makes sin seem trivial for those who haven't previously fallen into it by showing them people who have fallen into sin and saying: "what consequences did they have to face for their sins? Your sins are nothing compared to their sins, you have not done anything wrong" Then he teaches us to sin step by step making us immune and ignorant to the consequences of it.

Then once we have fallen deep into it, he says: "Look at you, do you think God is going to forgive you? Are you not ashamed to approach God with all these sins? Are you not ashamed to go to a prist and admit to all these sins? You shameful being!" To make us think that God doesn't forgive, painting him as cruel. 

Hence we should understand that this is the devil's trap and get up when we fall, never give up. We have the hope to inherit our Lord's Kingdom, which is eternal and absolute. Hence how can we give up? We don't! God died for us, it is for us that he gave his Holy Blood and his Holy Flesh, it is for us that he gave his mother the Virgin Mary. Hence we don't give up. 

May God help us confess all our sins and live a life or repentance so we can stay in His house until the last breathe and inherit His Kingdom. 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:314 | date:2023-01-04T20:30:51 ---
👉🏾 Does a woman who faced #rape need #confession? 

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page, we encourage you to ask questions on this page. The following is a question that was sent to us privately, which you can do on Telegram by sending a message to the admin 'ዮሐንስ ንስሐ' or by sending us an email at yohannes.neseha@gmail.com. Since we all face similar struggles in life, we can all learn from one another. Hence we entrust you all to read and learn from the answers we give. 

Is a girl who was raped required to repent for this?

👉🏾 Question: Peace be with you in Christ, dear family of the Most High God, Virgin Mary's tithes of the proud children of the cross, as well as my fathers and brothers, who tirelessly answer our questions, may God's peace be with you all.My question is If a girl is forced to rape, should she repent in this matter?

👉🏾Answer: Beloved members of John's repentance page, first we need to define what it means to confess. It means to communicate the things that our mind holds against us, the things that we feel guilty of, the things we do not feel comfortable living with to our father of repentance. Hence if our dear sister communicates what happened to her penitent father, she would be benefited but not harmed and it wouldn't be wrong to do so. She will learn how to consulate, comfort and calm herself from the spiritual and fatherly advice so communicating the situation with her spiritual father will benefit her in many ways but won't harm her in any way.

Our fathers say: "if the owner doesn't scream, the neighbors will not hear, the neighbors will not rescue" hence communicating our situation to those who are concerned will be useful but not harmful. 

A person needing medication will only get the right medication after they communicate all their issues but if they hide them, they don't have a cure. Hence since our member has been hurt and are in grief, they need spiritual and fatherly advice to comfort them. Hence it is good if she communicates the situation with her spiritual father who will determine what to do, what she needs to do and how she should continue. "You are not the only one to have faced this my daughter, come down it will be alright. You are not guilty of the sin because you were forced into it. It would have been better if this would not have happened in the first place, but after it did, all we can do is to leave everything to God and say it is for good." 

Repentance is neede for all of us because we all sin all the time. Sin can be performed in 3 different ways: in thought, in word and in action. Hence who is clean form sin of though? Who is clean form sin of word? Only the Virgin Mary is clean from all three types of sins. Hence we all need to confess, communicate our shortcomings to our spiritual father and continuously get spiritual and fatherly advices. Hence it is not only because our dear sister has faced such a terrible situation that she has to go see the priest. She should continuously seek spiritual and fatherly advice and consult with her spiritual father on what to do.

May God help us live a life or repentance so we can stay in His house until the last breathe and inherit His Kingdom. 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:315 | date:2023-01-04T20:33:01 ---
👉🏾 About our Lord and Savior #Jesus #Christ, mistery of the #Trinity and mistery of #incarnation 

👉🏾 Question: I, as an Orthodox believe that Jesus Christ is God. There are also Bible verses that prove this. However, many have difficulty accepting that Jesus is God, and that he is one of the Holy Trinity, due to there still are other verses that say, "Hear my Father" when Jesus speaks. Therefore, how can we explain to those who do not believe in simple language? Becauseb this is difficult to understand it.

Answer: The question is related to theology and the mystery of the Trinity. He said not only 'my father', but 'he has begotten me'. To understand this, it is necessary to know about the mystical Trinity and the mystical incarnation. Previously, when we talked about the divinity of Jesus Christ, we talked extensively about the names of God. There are names by which the Lord was called in ancient times, that were unknown before His birth. And Jesus is his New Testament name. The names we call 'Jesus Christ', 'Jesus' are when he became flesh, became a perfect God (he was already God), a perfect Man; He is a Man and is God. He is God even after he dies, rises, and ascends. Therefore, when he becomes a man, what we speak about him, what He too speaks is that he speaks as if there is another father, another superior authority, to mean for the united body; The flesh that was a creature is saying that I have become God. (because he  was God before He united the flesh;   the flesh became absolute God when   Divinity united it; and He became absolute Man, absolute God) Jesus is the son of man and the son of God.

Our Lord Jesus is one of the Trinity Body, who was and is Glorified, praised equally together with the Almighty father & Holy spirit, before the creation of the world and forever. so, God the Son is God in a different form, he is the creator, he is almighty, he is pure and he is holy. When he was born from the virgin Mary, there is a body that arose from her, and he chose her as a pure saint for motherhood, starting from the womb, so that the sin of Adam would not be passed on to her. This is the teaching of our church, and this is what our holy fathers have revealed to them and said about her in all their books and common teachings.

In the holy book, when St. Gabriel announces her purity, virginity and is different from all women; he does not describe her femininity in the language used by other people. For example, a girl is called a 'woman' after losing her virginity; but  our Lady Virgin Mary is a virgin forever. She is a virgin before her conception, during her conception, and after her conception. She is a virgin before, during, and after giving birth.

Therefore, the flesh united from this mother is perfect God. What happened to the flesh that was the creature? He became a god. This is why:

1.  The expression "my father" refers to the birth of the pre-world without a mother. This is an inscrutable birth, it is a subtle birth, it is a birth beyond our imagination. Even we, let alone him, talk normally about the secret of reproduction from our mother and father,  but this even itself is abstract. Doctors confirm that a fetus lives in the mother's womb for nine months and five days before birth, and we know this from experience. But the secret of being born as a human being after this water and blood, as a boy or a girl, when he stayed in the mother's womb for 9 months and 5 days, what kind of food he was being fed, what kind of care, what kind of air he was getting, how he was born as a human being is amazing. After that, when we see how he comes from the darkness to the light world, from non-existence to existence, from the narrow to the wide world, this birth is a mystery. Hence, let alone the birth of God and the birth of man is even a subtle mystery.

(To be continued) 👇

--- id:316 | date:2023-01-04T20:36:01 ---
👉🏾 About our Lord and Savior #Jesus #Christ, mistery of the #Trinity and mistery of #incarnation 

(Continued part)

Therefore, God the Son is the natural son of God the Father without a mother. As the son, the father does not go ahead, and the son does not follow behind. They are equal in power, rule, and by creating the World. After all, there is no time when the Father is called the Son, it is always the Father. And there is no time when the Son is called the Father, he is always called the Son. This birth is truly perfect, subtle and wonder. This is what people should understand. This is in the Bible, the Virgin Mary says, "She will conceive in a virgin and give birth in a virgin, and she will call his name Immanuel."

Therefore, the name Jesus Christ is the name of his incarnation. There is divine nature, and there is physical nature. There is a divine body, and there is a physical body. This became one without exception. In combination. One nature from two natures, one body from two bodies, one body from two bodies. One trait out of two traits. This means that the nature and body of the divinity and the flesh have become one. In combination. Therefore, the name Jesus Christ is called to describe these two, the union of the divine and the flesh. 'Jesus' means 'salvation'. He is the savior medicine that was expected to come.

So the reason our Lord said 'My Father', 'My Father' is that upon pre-earthly He is the son of God the Father without a mother.  We said that the trinity is three, because the father's task is to give birth and instillation. And God the Son was born from his physical father before the world. If we say why he was born, it is because the task of the Son is to be born.  Post world, He was born from the Holy Virgin Mary without a father. So we believe in two birth, one of which is that God the Son was born as a natural son of God the Father - the first birth. The latter was born of the Virgin Mary without a father - the second birth. So we know that it is two birth.

Therefore, when he says, "My Father sent me", "to do what I was sent to do by my Father, without him I do nothing"; he also says, "He and I are one", "he who has seen me has seen the Father", he expresses that they are one in authority. Coming to save the world in a separate body is the will of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, not a separate will. Therefore, even though our request seems to be confused verses, but to understand this well, it is necessary to first read and understand the basic religious teaching of the mystery of the Trinity and the mystery of our body, especially what the Evangelist John wrote. If we look at it, he has told us clearly about the trinity and the unity. God the Son is the word of God, and the word is called, "Trinity: They are likened in heart, word and breath." In the heart is the Father, in the word is the Son, in the breath is the Holy Spirit." They think with the heart of the Father, speak with the words of the Son, and live with the breath of the Holy Spirit. John the Evangelist began his gospel with a deep theology. He became flesh." This 'Word' is God the Son. This God we call 'Jesus' was in the beginning, He was the Creator with His character Father, God the Father, and His character life with the Holy Spirit.  Our Lord Jesus Christ is God (Creator) who became a perfect man, became flesh and glorified as Lord. (He who appeared on earth was no less than the nature of his Godhead, the nature of his Father, the Father, and the nature of his life together with the Holy Spirit, and he was on the throne, being praised in unity and trinity)

Godhead is the name of the unity of the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit or their will. The Trinity cannot do all things by separate authority, they are one in their divinity, existence, power, dominion, creation. Therefore he said it is God, and he explained to us that he is God in the first place. This is the Word, this is the son. Sometimes we go to another wrong observation by holding only the single verses that we find in the Bible.

(To be continued) 👇

--- id:317 | date:2023-01-04T20:39:01 ---
👉🏾 About our Lord and Savior #Jesus #Christ, mistery of the #Trinity and mistery of #incarnation 

(Continued part) 

In general, to those who have difficulty in understanding the divinity of our Lord Jesus Christ, we explain to those who say that the theology, the coming of the Son of God to this world, the birth of the Virgin Mary, the secret of being a human being, without understanding these and other basic religious teachings, is less powerful than the Godhead or the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit, as follows.

(to be continued)

May the blessings of our fathers, our Lady Virgin Mary, our Lord and our God Jesus Christ be upon us.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:332 | date:2023-01-05T20:31:15 ---


--- id:333 | date:2023-01-05T20:31:15 ---


--- id:334 | date:2023-01-05T20:31:15 ---


--- id:335 | date:2023-01-05T20:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Tears of #repentance 

Dear Orthodox friends of John's Repentance website spiritual program series; We have sent you the following educational message regarding the subject mentioned in the title, so we entrust you to read and understand it.

There is a legend that has been told since ancient times. The Almighty God said to the angels, "Go to the earth and bring the most precious things that you find on earth." One of the angels brought a drop of blood that a man had shed to save another man. The Most High God said, "O angel; This that you have brought is glorious in my sight. However, it is not the most glorious one. Another angel came from a patient who died of an infectious disease and a nurse who died from the disease and brought her last breath. The Most High God said, "O angel; This that you have brought is glorious in my sight. However, it is not the most glorious one. Finally, another angel brought the tears of a sinner who had repented in a small cup before God. And God said to the angel, "O angel; "You have brought to me the most noble thing in the world," he replied. (Philokalia: the Bible of Orthodox Spirituality p.159)

The way for a person to return to God after he has sinned is through tears of repentance. The psalmist, Saint David, often tells us about the blessed pearl of the Holy Spirit. Let's notice what he said, "I wash my bed all night long, and I wipe my bed with my tears." He said this because his repentance is through the grace and mercy of the Holy Spirit. For his repentance was not in vain like the repentance of Judas. Again, the psalmist tells us that "weeping will come in the evening, but in the morning there will be joy" (Ps 29 (30):5). This signifies the joy of the Holy Spirit given with tears. It is related to what the Lord said in the Gospel, "Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted" (Matthew 5:4). Tears give spiritual rest to the soul lost in sin, and cause it to gain insight and the revelation of mysteries. When the Holy Gospel talks about Saint Peter, it says, "He went outside and wept bitterly" (Luke 22:62). He received the great responsibility to feed and lead the believers after walking in tears

Our ancestors taught that tears are a gift from God to give birth to a new life. Baptism is one; If a person sins after baptism and is in the work of death, his return and "rebirth" is this tear of repentance. Through the tears of repentance, he renews the grace that he received in baptism, but which was later corrupted by sin.

St. John the Baptist said, "The fire of sin is steadfast." But a few drops of tears extinguishes the burning of mistakes (like fire) and purifies our souls. He teaches us this spiritual lesson. Because the tears of true repentance are a gift from God, it explains to us that no matter how bad a person's wrongdoing is, it has the power to destroy that serious sin. St. John said this to indicate that a person can do wrong because of his free will, and whether he does not use it, will be questioned at the time of judgment. We find this holy father often teaching about tears of repentance. One of his teachings where he explained that "tears are both the mother and child of prayer" is worth mentioning. Tears have a great place for a person's eternal life and the union of grace with God. It makes a person compassionate, pure, loving others, forgiving and humble. If he does this, he will live forever as his creator (God).

In general, all members; Thinking only of God's things, we should repent, be in a broken heart to fulfill our canon properly, and pray with tears; Similarly, if we come across other things that can mislead or distract us, we recommend that we need to stay away from them so that we don't fall into sin.

We will return in the next lesson about the obstacles to repentance, so stay tuned

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:339 | date:2023-01-06T20:31:01 ---
👉🏾 Spiritual advice and view about #anxiety and #depressed spirit

What does the Church say about anxiety and depression treatment?

👉Question:  Hello. What are doctrines of the Church regarding anxiety and depression?  In the medical world, for example, it is mental illness that requires different types of treatment like therapy, medication etc. Does the church support this? Thank you

✍️ Answer: First, before we ask What anxiety or depression is, it is important to know how anxiety happnes, What leads people to anexity, What  will be the end result of it? Because if we know the cause of the problem and the damage, the solution will be easy. 

First when we look closely at man, we see that a man becomes anxious, distressed, despaired, depressed, and sad due to being separated from God, the Creator. For this basic principle, it is enough to remember the first man, Adam. Adam is a creature of God created in the image and example of God, in heaven, he was given everything to live in glory. When he lived in Heaven, a law is made for him and he did what he was told to do and did not do what he was told not to do. He lived without worry for seven years, enjoying peace, love, and help, giving thanks, and singing with the holy angels. By saying, God is my father, heaven is my inheritance, paradise is my inheritance and my place. All these blessings came to him because he abided by the law that was set forth for him. 

Once he transpassed God's law, he lost a Lord like God, a place like heaven. After that, he became an abode of anxiety, he became a house of anxiety and he became worried, gripped, self-reprimanded, lost confidence, swallowed by sadness, fell into sadness.

Sin means to lose, to be deprived, to be away, to be lost, to be separated. When we talk about loss, we mean peace, help, sleeplessness, lack of dignity, which conflicts with oneself, discourages, and creates anxiety. Committing sin makes you lose God because God is the owner of everything, the owner of peace, the owner of blessings, the owner of help, the owner of grace. Therefore, when we separate from God, we lose all of these. Sin is transpassinf God's commandments. Anything that is bad is called sin. Therefore, one of the symptoms of a sinful person is anxiety or lack of peace. "There is no peace for the wicked, says my God" (Isaiah 57:20-21). Therefore, when we are in this mood, what we should do is to get up and repent and be reconciled with the Creator. Saint John Chrysostom said, "He who raises himself in repentance is better than he who raises death." It is true, it is greater.

So if we say what is anxiety, it means that it is the result of sin. If we say what sin is, it means losing God. When Adam lost God, he got that kind of anxiety. If we were to say what caused this anxiety, it was his mental problem, his disturbance, his lack of peace. So when we look at what the final solution was, he found peace when he was reconciled with God, and this is possible first of all by sincerely hating sin and returning to God in repentance. This is what the Church teaches. So, it means the only way to cure anxiety and depression is through repentance and living with God. He told us, "You can do nothing without me." John 15:5

As our questioner said above, medical experts also tell us that people who have lost their peace, people who are depressed can be saved with medicine. This may be reassuring for a while. But it does not bring a permanent solution. Man can never be at peace apart from God, so the solution is to live with God in religion. People who have fallen into sin, repenting, fulfilling their canons, receiving His holy body and precious blood, listening to the voice of God regularly, fasting, praying, prostrating, obeying God's commands, doing what God says to do, and not doing what God says not to do, will bring them out of anxiety.

(To be continued)👇🏾

--- id:340 | date:2023-01-06T20:36:41 ---
(Continued part)👆🏾

Repentance gives us peace, love, and allows us to live with God, so it is the solution is to live with God, to be with God. May God help us all to live with him, repent and give us all a wise mind.

May the blessings of God's mother, our Lady Virgin Mary and the cross remain with us. 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:342 | date:2023-01-07T08:51:13 ---


--- id:343 | date:2023-01-07T08:51:14 ---


--- id:344 | date:2023-01-07T08:51:14 ---


--- id:345 | date:2023-01-07T08:51:25 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Nativity of #Christ - A #New #Covenant

Christ is born! Glory be to Him! 

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about today's feast, the nativity of Christ written by Bishop Youssef of the Coptic Orthodox Church because it is important to understand what we are celebrating, so we entrust you to read it and learn from it.

The birth of our Lord Jesus Christ marks the beginning of a New Covenant between God and man, a covenant previously and purposefully foreshadowed and prepared for by a prior covenant.

In order to understand and appreciate the New Covenant that God has instituted with humanity, it is necessary to take a close look at the old one.

The Old Covenant was between God and Israel "And I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your descendants after you in their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and your descendants after you" (Genesis 17:7). The New Covenant, however, is established between God and any person who will receive the Son of God "But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, to those who believe in His name who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God (John 1:12,13).

The Old Covenant was temporary, and conditioned upon the Israelites’ obedience of the law. God foretold to Moses that this covenant would not last but would soon be broken, "this people will rise and play the harlot with the gods of the foreigners of the land, where they go to be among them, and they will forsake Me and break My covenant which I have made with them. Then My anger shall be aroused against them in that day, and I will forsake them" (Deut 31:16,17). On the other hand, the New Covenant is designed for eternal life; and will thus last forever. St. Paul says, "The God of peace who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant …" (Heb 13:20,21).

In the Old Covenant, there was no hope of eternal life for a person who broke any of the prescribed laws. In that sense, the law could not bring salvation nor justify anyone. All it could do was teach people the need for salvation by a Savior and by His grace granted henceforth. In contrast, in the New Testament, we are justified and sanctified by the work of our Lord Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit.

The ceremony of the Old Covenant included the slaughter of a heifer, a goat, a ram, a dove, and a young pigeon. After that Abraham cut the carcasses in half, and then at sunset only God walked the blood path between the two pieces of the carcasses (Genesis 15). Usually both parties of the Covenant would walk the blood path between the slaughtered animals as a symbol of what would happen to either party if they violated the terms of the agreement. It is interesting to note that with Abraham, only God walked the blood path to indicate that if Abraham or his descendants dishonored the covenant, God and only God would have to pay the price with His own blood.

The New Covenant has been established not by the slaughter of animals but by the slaughter of the Son of God on the holy wood of the Cross, after having walked the blood path Himself. "Why is Your apparel red, And Your garments like one who treads in the winepress? I have trodden the winepress alone, and from the peoples no one was with Me. For I have trodden them in My anger, And trampled them in My fury; Their blood is sprinkled upon My garments, and I have stained all My robes" (Isaiah 63:2-3).

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:346 | date:2023-01-07T08:53:59 ---
(continued part) 👆🏾

The old law revolved around a system of animal sacrifices performed by chosen priests from the tribe of Levi. These Levitical priests had to make an offering for their own sins before they could offer sacrifices on behalf of anyone else. It is important to note that, there were many priests, who because of their sins and consequent spiritual death were prevented from continually offering the sacrifice. On the other hand, in the New Covenant our Mediator is a High Priest who being sinless, offered His own blood (for our forgiveness) for us and brought His sacrifice to Heaven itself as the only perfect offering to God. Because He has been raised from the dead, His perfect priesthood continues forever (Heb 7:23,24).

While the Old Covenant was written on two tablets of stone, the New Covenant is an Internal Covenant written on our hearts by the Holy Spirit who dwells in us "I will put my laws into their minds, and I will write them on their hearts" (Heb 8:10).

We knew sin through the Law "the Old Covenant" (Rom 7:7-11) and with the Law, there was no forgiveness but curse and wrath. However, through the New Covenant we have received the forgiveness of our sins: "For I will be merciful to their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more" (Heb 8:12).

The Old Covenant revealed the holiness of God in the righteous standard of the Mosaic Law and promised the coming of the Redeemer, but the New Covenant has shown the holiness of God in the righteousness of His Son.

The Old Covenant became obsolete with the appearance of the New Covenant which is eternal: "When He said, ’A New Covenant,’ He has made the first obsolete. But whatever is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to disappear" (Heb 8:13).

From the above comparison between the old and new covenants, it is obvious that the New Covenant is a much better one because it establishes a new and better relationship between God and man… As St Paul says, "And for this reason He is the Mediator of the New covenant" (Heb9:15) because "… now He has obtained a more excellent ministry, inasmuch as He is also Mediator of a better covenant, which was established on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second" (Heb 8:6,7).

Through His incarnation, our Lord Jesus Christ became a Mediator of the New Covenant that was foreseen by Jeremiah the prophet, "Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah--not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, My covenant which they broke, though I was a husband to them, says the Lord. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put My law in their minds, and write it on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people. No more shall every man teach his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' for they all shall know Me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, says the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more" (Jeremiah 31: 31-34).

St. John Chrysostom explains the meaning of a Mediator, "What is a 'Mediator'? A mediator is not lord of the thing of which he is mediator, but the thing belongs to one person, and the mediator is another: as for instance, the mediator of a marriage is not the bridegroom, but one who aids him who is about to be married. So then also here: The Son became Mediator between the Father and us. The Father willed not to leave us this inheritance, but was wroth against us, and was displeased with us as being estranged from Him; He accordingly became Mediator between us and Him, and prevailed with Him."

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:347 | date:2023-01-07T08:56:44 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

The New Covenant has been instituted by the blood of the Lamb, "In the same manner He also took the cup after supper, saying, this cup is the new covenant in My blood. This do, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me" (1Cor 11:25). St. John Chrysostom elaborates, "But they were not sprinkled with "scarlet wool," nor yet "with hyssop." Why was this? Because the cleansing was not bodily but spiritual, and the blood was spiritual. How? It flowed not from the body of irrational animals, but from the Body prepared by the Spirit. With this blood not Moses but Christ sprinkled us, through the word which was spoken; "This is the blood of the New Testament, for the remission of sins." This word, instead of hyssop, having been dipped in the blood, sprinkles all. And there indeed the body was cleansed outwardly, for the purifying was bodily; but here, since the purifying is spiritual, it enters into the soul, and cleanses it, not being simply sprinkled over, but gushing forth in our souls. The initiated understand what is said. And in their case indeed one sprinkled just the surface; but he who was sprinkled washed it off again; for surely he did not go about continually stained with blood. But in the case of the soul it is not so, but the blood is mixed with its very substance, making it vigorous and pure, and leading it to the very unapproachable beauty."

Let us praise the Lord with the angels for His birth and the establishment of the New Covenant saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men."

May the Glorious Feast of the Nativity bless us and alert us to rededicate our hearts and lives to the New Covenant with our Lord Jesus Christ.

Source: Bishop Youssef, 
              Coptic Orthodox
              Diocese of the Southern 
              United States

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:363 | date:2023-01-08T20:31:42 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #repentance, #confession and #penitent #father 

Why confess to a Priest instead of confessing directly to God?

👉🏾Question - Why do I have to confess to a Priest? can't I, myself, confess directly to God?

Answer: Repentance is one of the requirements for any Christian. A person who confesses their sins to the priest considers the priest as God's messenger and God as the judge. The Bible says, "For the priest is the messenger of the Lord of hosts." (Malik 2:7) Repentance is a great thing that includes various actions. Among these are: admitting the wrongdoing and confessing the sin to God, to the priest and accepting the canon through the priest or penitent father.

Therefore, when a person commits a sin, they first confesses to God admiting to their sin and pouring tears of repentance before God. We confess our sins to God not to tell him what he doesn't know, but to ask for his forgiveness and mercy by trusting that we have wronged him. But this does not exclude confessing to a priest; Confession to a priest is part of confessing to God, not a substitute for that. Confession to a priest does not exclude confession to God; On the other hand, it is wrong to think that confession to God is a substitute to confession to a priest

Confession of sins to the penitent father is not only appropriate and necessary, but it is also a duty that has no alternative because it is God's command. The priestly authority that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ gave to the holy apostles is an abstract and heavenly authority allowing them to bind and loose sin. It is also the authority given to them by the Holy Spirit to help people enter into the kingdom of God and to prevent them from the kingdom of God. This means that when God Jesus Christ, who has all power, chose and appointed the 12 apostles and 72 disciples from among the world so that when people  committed sins, they could come to the apostles repented of their sins and confessed their sins, because they were given the authority to forgive all those who have sinned, because the authority given to them will destroy all their sins. - Our Lord says to the priests in his gospel, "You are the light of the world" Matthew 5-14. Priests are the ones who lead us to the Kingdom of God through repentance, lead us away from impurity, darkness and sin, and lead us to hate sin and live a virtuous life.
 
On the day when the Holy Spirit descended, through the sermon of Saint Peter, the apostles converted 2000 people. The people then asked the apostles 'What should we do?  We don't have our own personal lives anymore and there is nothing better than this. There is blessing under you and around you.' The apostles replied to them saying 'Repent'. If we ask what the apostles mean when they say this, it means 'come tell us your repentance' (confess your sins)

When we look at the story of Lazarus, when a man in hell said to Abraham, please let me come to you, and let me rest for a moment. Abrham said to him there is a great gulf between you and me, you cannot come to me. Then he said to Abrham, "I beg you father, send Lazarus to my family, 28 for I have five brothers. Let him warn them, so that they will not also come to this place of torment.." And Abraham said, "They have Moses and the Prophets; let them listen to them."

(To be continued)👇🏾

--- id:364 | date:2023-01-08T20:33:02 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

Therefore, what we learn from this is that it is God who taught, placed and appointed these fathers among us to tell us the truth, teach us, and advise us. The penitent fathers are also responsible and accountable for the souls of every person under their fatherhood. God said through the prophet Ezekiel "When I say to the wicked, ‘You shall surely die,’ and you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life, that same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood I will require at your hand." Which is a strong reminder of this serious responsibility. This is why the Apostle St. Paul said, "Obey your superiors, be submissive; As if they were giving a reckoning, so that they would do this not with sorrow but with joy...strive for your souls" (Hebrews 13:17). These are the fathers of penitence who are said to give account and fight for your soul.

Therefore, our questioner should understand it in this regard. Also, a quote from the Bible? For those who asked, we recommend that you read and understand what we have listed below.

- St. John the Baptist was baptizing the people with a baptism of repentance that prepares them for Christ. At that time, the people would come to him and confess their sins to him before being baptized in the baptism of repentance. When the Holy Bible talks about this, it says: "At that time all Jerusalem and Judea and all the country around the Jordan would go up to him and be baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins" (Matthew 3:5-6). Therefore, just as the people used to confess their sins to John the Baptist when they repented so that they could be baptized in the baptism of repentance, it means that the faithful confess their sins to their penitent fathers before they approach the holy mysteries. Also, just as John gave them advice and rebuke, the fathers of penitence will give advice and canon that they think is appropriate based on the life and circumstances of the deceased. Matthew 3:8-10

- When we look at Achan's story, in Isaiah 7:21-23, Joshua said to Achan: My son, give glory to God, the God of Israel, confess to Him, and tell me what you have done, don't hide from me. And Achan answered Joshua and said, "I have indeed sinned against the God of Israel, I have done such and such" (7:21-23). Joshua, give Achan the glory of God, confess; Just as he says, "Tell me, don't hide from me, what a person confesses to his penitent father is part of his confession to God." When Achan confessed to Joshua, he was confessing to God. Therefore, when he confesses to his penitent father, he makes God the judge, and the penitent believes that his father will forgive his sins and be forgiven according to the authority given by God, and reconcile him to his creator.

In the New Testament, when a man with leprosy approached him and asked, "Lord, if you want to, you can cleanse me," bowing down; then the Lord stretched out his hand and touched him and said, "I want to cleanse you. Be Cleansed." And he was free from leprosy. After that, our Lord immediately ordered the leper whom he had just cleansed to say: " Be careful not to tell anyone, but go and show yourself to the priest; And as a witness to them, offer him the offering that Moses commanded." Matthew 8:2-4 The surprising thing is that, even though our Lord healed the leper himself, (although there was nothing else that was needed more in our Lord's healing), but our Lord himself  has ordered the person by saying :- "Go, and show yourself to the priest,”

(To be continued)👇🏾

--- id:365 | date:2023-01-08T20:36:01 ---
(continued part) 👆🏾

We can also see this father-son relationship of repentance in the relationship between King David and the prophet Nathan. When David was thinking about building a temple, it was the prophet Nathan who consulted him and told him to refer to God. Prophet Nathan was praying to God and telling David the answer he received from God. Later, when David was hindered by sin, God sent the same prophet, Nathan to wake David up from the sleep of sin and to repent. And Nathan went and told David his sin with wisdom and tact. At that time, David admitted his mistake, repented, and confessed. By this we understand that the father of repentance is needed not only for confession, but also to advise and bring to repentance.

Our Lord and God Jesus Christ has shown us the actions and performance of the father of repentance. The Samaritan woman was heartbroken and hurt from the complex ups and downs of her life, so she came to draw water when no one was around so that no one would see her. When our Lord spoke to her, starting the conversation by taking about water, he gradually elevated the conversation from earthly to heavenly, from temporal matters to eternal matters. Then our Lord said to her, "Go, call your husband and come here." He was opening the door and showing her the way for her to confess her sin. She replied, "I don't have a husband." Then our Lord said, "You said well that I do not have a husband; For you have had five husbands, and the one who is with you now is not your husband; And in this you have spoken the truth" by saying what she was afraid to say, he made her understand that he is her God who knows all her life. (John 4:1-42) Our Lord showed us this in practice, to teach that the father of repentance should talk to each soul and find a way to heal it, not in a public sermon where many people have gathered, but in a private, slow, wise and careful manner. Therefore, the relationship between the penitent father and the repentant son is such a mysterious relationship that exists only between the two of whom only God is the witness.

- Father of repentance means our confidant, our closest advisors in our spiritual and physical life. The wise man Sirach said, "Let many people be your friends, and let one of many be your counsel, and let your counsel be one with your heart." Sirac 6-6. This means that even though the faithful may have many priests to teach them about religion and morals, one of them should be the teacher to whom they confess their repentance. Father of repentance means confidant and counselor.

- Therefore, we should not live without a penitent father or stay away from a penitent father. Because we need a priest who can stand as a witness for all the spiritual work we do before God. In subtle and mysterious ways the holy angels stand as our guardians; In this real world and in the life we live as a Christian, our priests and fathers have been appointed by God to be shepherds of our souls. Because the authority given to them by God to bind and loose sins is not in vain, we should respect and use the system of repentance that God has made for us.

We must also understand that repentance is not a human command, but a Creator's directive. No Christian should spend a single day without a repentant father. Therefore, every member of the Orthodox Church, from the time he reaches the age of majority, has a Christian duty to have a penitent father and confess his sins to his penitent father for it is said “And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 16᎓19)

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:367 | date:2023-01-08T20:41:38 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

According to the evidence mentioned above, the keys to the kingdom of God were given to the apostles and those who came after them. It is important to note that the opening and closing of the keys to a house or door is not a physical thing; rather, it refers to the authority given to the apostles to enter the kingdom of heaven and to deny entry to those who do not deserve it. It is also important to understand that the concept of "loosing" does not refer to physical bindings, such as ropes or chains, used to punish someone for a crime they have committed in this world. Instead, it refers to the grace given by the Holy Spirit to atone for the sins of sinners and to hold their lives accountable, as previously explained.

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:385 | date:2023-01-09T20:47:05 ---


--- id:386 | date:2023-01-09T20:47:05 ---


--- id:387 | date:2023-01-09T20:48:49 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Incarnation of the Word #Jesus and the #Nativity period 

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about the nativity and incarnation of Christ written by Bishop Youssef of the Coptic Orthodox Church because it is important to understand the mistery of incarnation, so we entrust you to read it and learn from it.

Upon the Feast of the Incarnation of the Word, it is important to reflect upon the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ and what He represents. St. John in His Holy Gospel wrote, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." (1:1) and the Apostle also wrote, "The Word became flesh and dwelt among us." (1:14) Through these Holy Scriptures we learn that the Lord Jesus Christ is God, for He was with God before all times. This is the reason we recite, "We believe in one Lord Jesus Christ, the Only begotten Son of God…" in the Nicene Creed.

Lactantius (c.304) wrote, "He who hears the Son of God mentioned should not conceive in his mind so great an impiety as to think that God begat Him by marriage and union with a woman…In what manner, then, did God beget Him? First of all, divine operations cannot be known or declared by anyone. Nevertheless, the sacred writings teach us…that this Son of God is the speech or even the reason of God…With good reason, therefore, He is called the Speech and the Word of God. For, by a certain incomprehensible energy and power of His Majesty, God enclosed the vocal spirit proceeding from His mouth into a form that has life through its own perception and wisdom. So God did not conceive the Word in His womb, but in His mind…Now, our human words are mingled with the air and they fade away. However, they can still be preserved in writing. How much more must we believe that the voice of God both remains forever and is accompanied with perception and power? It has derived this from God the Father like a stream from a fountain. Someone may be puzzled that God could be produced from God the Father by putting forth of the voice and breath. However, if such a person is acquainted with the sacred utterances of the prophets, he will cease to wonder…The Greeks speak of Him as the Logos, more appropriately that we Romans do as the "Word" or "Speech." For logos means both speech and reason. And He is both the Voice and the Wisdom of God."

His birth on earth was not His actual beginning, as the Lord Jesus Christ is without beginning. He has existed forever, for all times. From the very beginning the Incarnation was planned. This is the reason we recite in the Nicene Creed, "Begotten of the Father before all age; Light of Light, true God of true God…"

 St. Clement of Alexandria (c. 195), a learned and respected scholar who was in charge of the theological college in Alexandria, Egypt, wrote, "That the Son was always the Word is signified by saying, 'In the beginning was the Word."

Clearly we understand that He was born a man, "for He became flesh." He was like the earthly human but without sin dwelling among us. He was born both as God and man never denying His Divinity. The two are united without confusion between them. God has entered into earthly history as a man.

Thus with understanding we recite, "Begotten not created, of one essence with the Father, by Whom all things were made; Who for us, men, and for our salvation, came down from Heaven, and was incarnated of the Holy Spirit and became man" in the Nicene Creed.

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:388 | date:2023-01-09T20:50:02 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

Martyr Justin (c.160), a tireless evangelist and apologist who, prior to his time, wrote more than any other concerning Christianity, proclaimed, "The Word Himself, who took shape and became man was called Jesus Christ."

The truths expounded in the Nicene Creed help us to understand how The Word became Man and how the miracle of His birth or His incarnation came to be. Further, the Church Creed explains what happened to establish the truth. With the establishing and understanding of the truth, comes the opening of the age to come, the Kingdom of Heaven to us all.

Each time we pray the Nicene Creed, may we all come to a full knowledge of who the glorious person of the Lord Jesus Christ truly is, and how the Son of God became Man and is manifested to us.

Upon this Glorious Feast of the Nativity let us all give homage to the miraculous birth of the One who deified humanity.

May the blessings of the Glorious Feast of the Nativity be with you all.

H.G. Bishop Youssef
Bishop, Coptic Orthodox Diocese of the Southern United States

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:389 | date:2023-01-10T20:32:00 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #repentance, #confession, #father of #penance 

👉👉🏾Question: Thank God for answering all my questions and I have benefited from the answer. The next questions I have are :-

👉#1. How to choose a confessor and

 👉#2. How to  prepare to confess my sins?

Answer: Dear member; askng more questions and being eager to bear spiritual fruit based on what we learned previously is truly commendable. We entrust you to persevere in your purpose until the end, we too will do our best to serve you in all your way.  To repent or to come to a life of repentance and to confess your sins as a priority and to prepare for repentance is really the loyalty expected of a true Christian. God is a God of love, He always waits for us to return from our sins, with an open arms and call us His children.

When the prophet Ezekiel said that God does not like the death of a person and loves the return of a person to repentance, he said, "“Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways,” says the Lord God. “Repent, and turn from all your transgressions, so that iniquity will not be your ruin. 31 Cast away from you all the transgressions which you have committed, and get yourselves a new heart and a new spirit. For why should you die, O house of Israel? 32 For I have no pleasure in the death of one who dies,” says the Lord God. “Therefore turn and live!” (Ezekiel 18:30-32)

If we quote this word as an introduction; When we come to the question proposed by our questioner, let's start with your 2nd question, what should we do before we repent and after we repent? 

The following are mainly mentioned in the emotional and practical processes that are important if a believer is to do the awareness or understanding before he reaches the repentance of the believer.

- Genuine repentance: Before we repent, we must confess our sin and feel remorse. This type of regret follows failure, embarrassment, shame, loss, mistakes. A person who knows his sinfulness thinks about his transgression against God, other people, and his own soul. He mainly hates the sin he committed. The kindling of this kind of feeling in us is one of the signs of our vitality that explains why we do not lie comfortably on the bed of sin. As the prophet advised us, "If you repent and cry, you will be saved" (Isaiah 30:15). Crying for the sins we have committed is a great and bright way to be saved and to find forgiveness for our sins.

- Hating sin: One of the behaviors that help us easily hate sin is fearing God. The wise Solomon said, "He who fears God hates sin; "He hates envy and pride, and hates evil ways" (Proverbs 8:13). The great holy father Mar Isaac told us the great spiritual truth that if we do not hate the sin that we are repeatedly tempted by, it will reign on us. Abhorrence is the greatest degree of hatred, so it is necessary not only to abhor sin, but also to abhor thinking about it.

- Repentance of sin: Being ashamed of sin, hating sin, and turning back. A person who knows these well and has not come out of the slavery of sin will not hesitate for a moment to return to his former duty. Therefore, the first and most important thing that helps us not to go back to sin again is to admit that we have sinned and confess to ourselves, and to hate sin. Hating sin is the greatest force that helps us separate from sin and leave it forever. We cannot truly repent of sin while in the love of sin; Also, living in a fixable problem, we cannot fix it without separating from it.
 
- Bringing a change in thinking: To solve a problem in any area of our life, we must have a different perspective and desire than the one we had when the problem was created. Problems cannot be solved with a lazy mind, it is impossible to love with a hateful mind, and it is difficult to hate with a loving mind. Nor will he come to repentance with a sinful mind. Therefore, any change requires a change of thinking first. For this, our greatest powers are faith, good vision, and hope.

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:390 | date:2023-01-10T20:32:00 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

Accordingly, a sinner must first stop sinning and move from loving sin to hating sin in order to repent and live a spiritually healthy life.

Not to worry, but to repent: A sinner who worries and a sinner who repents are completely different; Anxiety is a disorder of terror caused by the abundance and evil of our sinfulness, and this kind of temporary regret can occur even in a conscience that has not awakened from sin. However, spiritual repentance is the first stage of repentance and comes after realizing sinfulness, hating sin, and being ashamed of sin. Saint Paul said in his second letter, "Now I rejoice, not that you were made sorry, but that your sorrow led to repentance. For you were made sorry in a godly manner, that you might suffer loss from us in nothing." (2 Cor 7:9) "Return to the Lord your God for he is merciful and compassionate, slow to get angry and filled with unfailing love. He is eager to relent and not punish" (Job 2:13, Ps 50:17, Job 2:1)

- To use our free will only for good things: Sin's greatest power and confidence against us is our love for it, not its power. The devil has no other reliance otherthan our consent. If we refuse our consent and win we will be rewarded. But if we give our consent to the work he offers us, we will be defeated and humiliated. If we remain losers, our defeat will not be inevitable for the time being. Because if Satan finds the small hole of the will, he will widen it like a snake licking it; And he will have a negative effect on our reltionship with God . When we give the evil our consent , the scourge of sin repeatedly whips us and drives us down to the valley of death, hell, and the world of damnation.

God predestined all human beings for life and salvation. But the decision is made when our free will is added to it. So whoever wants life can be saved. Salvation is in our hands. Our God always opens His hands and calls us to repentance so that we can use our consent and be back to having freedom. He who repents will be saved. He who refuses and ignores the call will perish.

2. Points to be aware and understand after repenting:

When the scholars teach, God doesn't like us to sit with our legs crossed, saying that it is from Him to always begin, do, and accomplish. He does not allow us to say that he gives value without work. However, we should say that we have done our part with our bodies, and he has done his part for us as God, and we should also fulfill his commandments. Therefore, our own decision to do and act good is important for salvation, which includes fasting, prayer, prostration, and almsgiving. The absence of righteousness is the source of sin that is trained against us when our inner relationship with God begins to break down. At this time, sin will easily train us. Therefore, if we already know the root causes of our temptations, we should avoid them and protect ourselves.

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:391 | date:2023-01-10T20:36:02 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

Hating sin not only with knowledge but also with will and emotion: Many people hate sin and don't want to do it. But when his will exceeds his knowledge, he commits it again and again while knowing he hates the sin. Therefore, unless we hate the sin not only by knowledge or fear, but also by will and emotion, if we hate it only because we know its evil or believe in the judgment it will bring upon us, our will is with the fleshly feelings, and we obey it while hating it. Even if we say that we will fight for it, we will lose and fall because our fight is not from our feelings. When we are tempted by a bad habit, if the will (emotion) is not awakened to understand the extent of the sin, it is not possible to leave the sin, because it is not possible to say that I hate the sin. Saint paul the apostle said "For the good that I will to do, I do not do, but evil I will not to do, that I practice"( Romans 7:19) to show that one of the reasons we fall into sin is because our passions cause us to not apply knowledge or not align knowledge with our feelings. In general, when we say that we hate sin, the hatred must be sincere and complete, that is, with will (emotion), knowledge, and with all our strength. This is possible by fulfilling God's commandment against sin word by word, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength" (Deuteronomy 6:5).

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:392 | date:2023-01-10T20:39:01 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

- In addition, if we testify that we hate sin, but talk about it in a playful way, then we do not hate sin. "When a sieve is shaken, the husks appear; so do people’s faults when they speak." (Sira 27:4) and "Do not accustom your mouth to coarse talk, for it involves sinful speech." (Sira 23:13). Therefore, however much we are tempted by the devil, however much he drives us towards sin, if immediately the will of our heart and the knowledge of our mind operate simultaneously to understand it's futility and refute her, then truly our rejection of sin is perfect. It will be confirmed that we have identified her as our enemy. Since it is dogs who return to its vomit, do not return to the sin you repentance for!

In order not to fall back into sin, it is important to regularly consult a penitent father or a religious teacher, pray as much as possible, go to church and listen to the word of God, read spiritual books even at home, and listen to spiritual teachings and hyms.

To summarize, a Christian should do the following after washing their sinful body from sin and purifying true lives:

1st/ Above all, be careful not to go back to sin again and defile your sacred life, but if we fall again with an overwhelming temptation; We need to repent immediately.

2nd/ If it is the will of God, partake the Holy Communion regularly, fast, pray and prostrate as much as you can without stopping and without tiring.

3rd / Giving to the poor from what you can afford, and giving to God what belongs to God (giving tithes).

4th/ Always seeking the advice of the fathers and being obidient to them. Going to the church regularly and learning the word of God.

5th/. Always read spiritual books that serve as a close teacher and mentor, do your part to live in peace and love with patience and wisdom in your life, workplace, social affairs with all mankind.

All these and other spiritual things can be done when a person's life is renewed through repentance, so believe that God will keep your life clean and holy and may God help you to put into practice the spiritual advice given to you above. 

3. Regarding the father of repentance:

We recommend getting a father who prioritizes the protection of his flock (his spiritual children) and always supervises and monitors their spiritual lives. Therefore, if there is a priest in your area who will advise and teach you, you can make him your father of repentance. If you can't find one in your area, contact a diligent priest who may beat a distance, either by yourself or someone you trust, and ask him to be your penitent father. If none of the above options work for you, you can contact us directly and we will help you find a father of repentance.

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:393 | date:2023-01-10T20:45:48 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

In addition, we advice our questioner and to everyone else, if perhaps we are ashamed to confess all the sins we have committed to our regular penitent father, or if we lose faith in him or suspect that our secrets are not kept confidential; And if we think that these things will harm our life, if possible, we should talk to our father and build trust. If he can't do this, we should respectfully, using spiritual wisdom and humility inform them that we will continue our confession life with a different father. We should choose another father whom we trust very much. The reason why we say this is that many of the faithful are unable to openly confess to their fathers about their wrongdoings because they think their secrets will be wasted. And some of them find it hard to be fully transparent with their spiritual fathers because they are a big part of their social lives. 

To be free from all this danger, we strongly recommend to find a father whom you really trust and don't doubt. Since the things we do to inherit the Kingdom of God are not performed according to the laws of the flesh, we must be extra careful and evaluate our ways and actions

In the further content, for a better understanding, we may come back with related content in regards to the relationship and responsibilities of both The father of repentance and the children of repentance..

Additional information - Penance must be primarily in physical. However, we explain that believers who cannot find a father of repentance in their local church can contact a father of repentance at a distance, they can do penance, they can get spiritual advice and education by contacting them by phone or any other communication channel that is convenient for them.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:395 | date:2023-01-11T20:30:24 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Adam and #Eve

Question: Hello, my non-Orthodox family asked me these questions today. If Adam and Eve are the ancestors of all of us, does this mean that their children had sexual relations with their relatives?

✍️Answer:- There is no question that Adam and Eve are the ancestors of all of us. The origin of all human beings is Adam, and there is no one other than Adam. God created Adam in His image and His likeness first, and then Eve, so Adam and Eve are the origins of creation, the descendants of all of us. They are origins, meaning they are the first creations.

Indeed, the children of Adam and Eve are married to each other. This is not breaking the relationship. There are three laws: the first one is called "the heart of the law (Law of Conscience), also known as the age of the law." This is the era when books were not written. It is the age from Adam to Moses when there was no law that said relatives should not marry each other. Books were not written, which means that their law is in their hearts so it was given to them to not steal, not to kill, but books were not written in this era. 

The second law is the "Constitution of the Torah or the Law of Moses". It is from Moses to the birth of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It is the time when books were written. 

The third is called the "Constitutional Gospel", which is from the time our Lord was born to the present time. Therefore, in the time when Adam and Eve were, the law was in the heart and there were no laws written in books, and it was a time when there was no other person. Their first children are "Cain and Cain's twin Lud". Next to Cain are "Abel and his twin Akelema."

After Adam and Eve gave birth to their children, Adam said to Eve, "Eve, your children have reached the age of marriage." Then it was revealed to Adam that when he was making a law in the Torah, in the days of Moses, that a relative should not marry a relative would be written. This shows us that in the future there will be a law that would state one should not marry a relative.

Adam then said it was better for Cain's twin to marry Abel than to marry her own twin. He did this because, in Adam's opinion, their relationship was a bit distant. Similarly, he thought that it would be better for Abel's twin to marry Cain than to marry her twin. Cain’s twin sister, Lud, looked like Eve and was good-looking unlike Abel’s twin, Akelema, and Cain was not happy about marrying Akelema and was disappointed.

He questioned, why should Abel marry my beautiful sister? Why should I marry Abel’s twin, who is not beautiful in appearance? He said he was disappointed. Adam said to him, this is not to happen, he should not marry his own sister, it will be annulled.

After that, they offered a sacrifice. Abel offered the sacrifice to God, which was a lamb that had no horns and no claws. Cain prepared a sacrifice saying 'God will not eat my sacrifice, whether he accepted it or not.' God looked at Abel's sacrifice. The look shows that he accepted Abel’s offerings, but he did not look at Cain and his sacrifice, which means that he did not accept it.

Cain was very angry because God accepted Abel's sacrifice and he felt that his father Adam and God were unfair to him. He thought to himself "who can be evil like me?" But when he brought it out, Satan appeared to him and said to him, "What happened to you?" Cain replied, "my brother took the wife that was right for me, and my father gave it to Abel. God accepted his sacrifice, but he did not accept mine." Satan said, "What bothers you about this? Call Abel to the field and ask him to go drink water and kill him and you can have both." Driven by jealousy, Cain killed his brother Abel.

When Adam married his sons, as we said above, he gave Abel's twin to Cain and Cain's twin to Abel. This means that he separated them and did not make them marry each other. This shows us that one should not marry a relative.

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:396 | date:2023-01-11T20:33:01 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

After that, when we see in the old testament that relatives do not marry relatives. When we look at the New Testament, John the Baptist says in Matthew chapter 14: 3-4, "Herod, you should not marry your brother Philip's wife."

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:397 | date:2023-01-12T20:31:11 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾1. What is #Religion?

2.  Who is the Ethiopian #Orthodox Tewahedo religion?

"It was necessary for me to write to you, exhorting you to fight for the religion that was given to the saints once and for all." Jude 1:3

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance website; Based on the question mentioned in the title, we have sent you the following important lesson, so we entrust you to read and learn from it.

"Religion" means: It is the lens of conscience through which we distinguish between the creator and the creature, righteousness and condemnation, light and darkness, life and death, heaven and hell. Religion is the true way to know and reach the abstract God (Creator) that we cannot see with our fleshy eyes and can not touch with our fleshy hands.

The basis of religion is to acknowledge the Almighty Creator. Accepting your creator begins with believing in being a creature. Because there is no one who says that I was created by myself. If a person believes that he is created, then he begins to search for the creator of this world because he believes that he has a creator. Religion is the foundation of everything, and the reason we say it is a deep and subtle way is because we believe in the existence of an invisible and intangible God. The bundle is our path of light and our door of righteousness to accept God whom we worship with all our hearts and travel to the end of the world. An example of this is to look at our father Abraham’s effort to find the creator, the story is in the bible.
The Bible uses the words faith, foundation, and way interchangeably for the word religion.. The Bible uses the words faith, foundation, and way interchangeably for the word religion.   

1/ Faith

The word faith describes accepting, trusting, and acting in response to what you believe. When St. Paul explained it in terms of receiving faith, he said, "Faith is the assurance of things we hope for and the explanation of things we do not see." He said that religion is a special grace through which we can see the subtle works of God, whom we cannot see with our eyes (Hebrews 11:1).
When St. Paul explains that faith is not only accepting, but also trusting or obeying, he also mentions the story of Abraham: Although Abraham received the promise that 'in Isaac, your seed will be called'; But when he was tempted, he offered his only son Isaac in faith. This explains that faith does not end only by saying that we believe, but also by doing what we believe (Hebrews 11:17-18).

In his message, the apostle Saint James explained that faith is not only believing (accepting) but also trusting (manifesting it by works): "My brothers, what good is it if there is a man who claims to have faith but has no works (conduct)?" Can his faith save him?" he said. (John 2:14)

Also, the apostle Saint James said, "You believe that God is one, and you do good, and the demons believe and tremble." (Jas 2:19, Mar 3:11) As we understand from this, the devil also believes, he trembles but has no good works. Therefore, not all faiths are considered religions. A Christian who does not do good while keeping God's law and order should not be called by God's name.

2/ Road (way)

Religion is God's revelation to mankind. In the prophet Hosea, "Who is wise who understands this thing, who understands it? God's way is upright, and the righteous walk in it, but the transgressors fall into it." He explained religion as "the way of God". Also, Hosea 14:9 and "But listen to my word, I am God." I will be your people, and you will be my people, so that it may be good for you, walk in all the ways I have commanded you. Er. 7:23 The apostle Saint James explains that religion is the way by saying, "He who turns a sinner from his wrong way may save his soul from death and erase the multitude of sins."

(part 2 continues)👇

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:398 | date:2023-01-12T20:33:02 ---
1.  What is Religion?

(continued part, part 2)

3./ Foundation (rock)

The knowledge found in religion is not the knowledge that a person has researched or discovered. When our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ wanted to reveal his identity to the world, he asked his disciples, 'Who do you say I am?'   And Simon Peter answered. He said, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God." And Jesus answered and said to him "O Simon, son of Jonah, blessed are you, for flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father in heaven. And I say unto thee, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.

Another thing we can understand from this is that if the source of religion was not God, the heavenly father, the knowledge that his disciple Simon Peter had about the identity of our Lord Jesus Christ would not have been different and better than that of other people of his time. But God revealed the truth to them, which was not seen by the physical research and search of this world of flesh and blood. This is why the apostle Saint Paul warned them: 'Let your faith not be in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. My words and my preaching were not with persuasive words of wisdom, but with revelation of spirit and power.' Cor. 2:5

Just as St. Paul said that religion is one, he also says that there is only one foundation. "In as much as the grace of God was given to me, like a wise master carpenter I laid a foundation, and another shall build upon it." But let each one be careful how he builds up against him. For no one can lay a foundation other than that which has been laid, which is Jesus Christ.' He said (1 Cor 3:10-12)

Religion is given from God

God gave Religion. And we accepted. Man cannot paint religion, make religion, or reform it. Our Lord and Savior Jesus said, "For I have given them the promise you gave me; And they received him, and they truly knew that I came from you, and they believed that you sent me." This is what he explained. This is why John 17:8 also said, "I have revealed your name to those whom you gave me out of the world."   Also, John the Evangelist clearly stated this: "The Word was in the beginning, and the Word was God, and the Word became flesh." (John 1:1) This 'Word' is God the Son. This God we call 'Jesus' existed in the beginning; from his characteristic father, God the Father and his characteristic life with the Holy Spirit, He was a creator. So, it is God himself who has revealed his name and identity to us to the extent that we can understand it, and religion is not a discovery made by human beings through research. (John 17:6) in addition to this, it is said that 'From long ago, God spoke to our fathers through prophets in many ways and in many ways, and He spoke to us at the end of this age in His Son, who made all the heirs and created the worlds; Hebrews 1:1-2

As Jesus has said to Simon Peter "O Simon, son of Jonah, blessed are you, for flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father in heaven. And I say unto thee, Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 

(part 3, continues)👇

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:399 | date:2023-01-12T20:36:02 ---
1.  What is Religion?

(continued part, part 3)

Religion is given once by God, because it is said that "religion was given once and for all to the saints." (Jude 3) The food varies from time to time, but the content is the same. For example, a baby is given milk and soft food when he is a baby, and solid food when he grows up, but his body nature remains the same and does not change.
As we received religion from God, people's role is only to accept it and use it to inherit eternal life. This means that no individual or entity in this world has the authority to add or subtract from the truth (religion) given by God. Even synodoses do not add or subtract from religion, but make important decisions to strengthen religion and reduce canons. This is what happened at the councils of Nicaea, Constantinople, and Ephesus. By identifying (condemning) the heretics who tried to change the religion of the church, they confirmed the true religion and did not make a new religious decision. The 318 fathers who gathered at the Council of Nicaea made a decision regarding the day on which the Easter is celebrated because it was not a matter of religion, but of the celebration of the day of the celebration of religion. As for religion, they confirmed what they had accepted and did not make a new decision.

Therefore, religion in the time of the Father, in the time of the Torah, in the time of the Gospel, the condition of its nutrition varies according to the ability and understanding of people of each time, but the content (theme) is the same. "Since ancient times, God has spoken to our fathers in many ways through the prophets, and He has spoken to us at the end of this age in His Son, who has made all the heirs and created the ages." Heb. 1:1-2 The religion of the holy angels, the father, Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, David, the prophets, and later the apostles and martyrs, the righteous and the scholars; is one.

Therefore religion is given once; It means that it does not need any reformation or change because it has always been (without reduction or remainder). They accept the religion, protect it, and inherit it, not renew it or improve it. The religion given to her by God, which our forefathers accepted from Him and lived in, is perfect and has been given to us once, so she does not age.

As we received religion from God, people's role is only to accept it and use it to inherit eternal life. This means that no individual or body in this world has the authority to add or subtract from the truth (religion) given by God. Even the synods do not add or subtract from religion, but make important decisions to strengthen the religion and reduce the canons.

Religion is one

The word that religion is one is a truth that does not raise the question of how to understand that there is one creator. Religion means accepting your Creator and trusting in His laws. And the creator is one in nature. Therefore, belief in the existence of one creator and the performance of worship worthy of his nature should be in one system. This is what we mean by religion. In short, religion means accepting the existence of a creator and being faithful to the accepted laws of the creator. So if it is said to be religion to accept that there is a creator and leader of the worlds, and if it is believed that the creator is one, then accepting that one creator and being subject to the law can be only in one system (religion),  not in many systems or religion.

When the Apostle St. Paul said that religion is one as the creator is one, he said, "There is one Lord, one religion, one baptism, who is above all, who works in all, who lives in all, and who is the Father of all." (Eph 4:5)

The division of religion

(part 4 continues)👇

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:400 | date:2023-01-12T20:39:01 ---
1.  What is Religion?

(continued part, part 4)

The division of religion or the difference of faith began on the day the angels were created. The division was based on the betrayal of the devil and the belief of the angels. Among mankind, the division of religion began with the sons of Adam, Abel and Cain. It is remembered that when Abel, the son of Adam, offered a pure lamb as a sacrifice, saying that God loves something pure, but Cael offered it with weeds, believing that God would not eat it, what would he do to it? This indicates that there was a difference of faith between Abel and Cael. Next, Isaac's sons, who started pushing while still in his mother's womb, Jacob, who is called Israel, and Esau, who gave up his birthright and sold it in lentil stew, became the reason for the division of religion. (Genesis 25:21-23)

But after these events, faith is seen to be an unstoppable issue that is increasing every day as the number of human beings increases. A large number of individuals have come to the conclusion that there is no creator and no religion due to the lack of answers to the question of what is the truth. That is why we say that not all faith can be called religion, but religion can be called faith.

"It was necessary for me to write to you, exhorting you to fight for the religion that was given to the saints once and for all." Jude 1:3
 

2. Who is the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo religion?

About the origin and meaning of the name of the Orthodox Tewahedo religion

First of all, it is necessary to briefly understand the word 'Ortho' - 'Dox' - 'Integrated' and 'Religion', based on its mystical meaning and theological teaching style and style of expression.

(Stay tuned for part four)

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:402 | date:2023-01-13T20:34:01 ---


--- id:403 | date:2023-01-13T20:34:01 ---


--- id:404 | date:2023-01-13T20:34:01 ---


--- id:405 | date:2023-01-13T20:34:11 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Need for the #Incarnation and the #nativity period 

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about the nativity of Jesus Christ and the need for incarnation written by Bishop Youssef of the Coptic Orthodox Church because it is important to understand the need for incarnation, so we entrust you to read it and learn from it.

The birth of our Lord Jesus Christ has become a turning point in the history of mankind; making it feasible to classify incidents into pre and post Nativity. It has also marked the birth of humanity; for in the Nativity was the Incarnation, and in the Incarnation was Salvation and through Salvation we received adoption becoming heirs to the Kingdom. 

The Imminence and the Indispensability of Salvation
The Incarnation basically means that God became man; taking a body from the Virgin Mary by the Holy Spirit. "Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a Son, and shall call His name Immanuel" (Isaiah 7:14). The most important reason for the Incarnation was to resolve the redemption issue bringing man back to his first rank of which he had fallen off because of sin. God had created Adam and placed him in the garden of Eden commanding him to not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, warning him that the day he would disobey, he would die "but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die" (Genesis 2:17). Through his wickedness, Satan enticed Eve to eat from the forbidden fruit. In doing so, Adam and Eve disobeyed God and broke the law. Consequently Adam had to die and perish in order to satisfy and fulfill God’s justice; otherwise God would breach his own claim of justice and credibility.

However, Adam’s death would have caused a number of ramifications, and would have been:
Against God’s Mercy. Adam was the victim of Satan’s enticing and tempting.

Against God’s Dignity. God created man in His own image and made him ruler over all his creatures. How then would God’s image be torn up so easily?

Against God’s Wisdom. God created man with wisdom to enjoy His love, blessings and sonship. How dare Satan deprive man of these free gifts? St. Athanasuis contemplates on this saying; "it was better for man if he was not created than to be created to face this fate."

Against God’s Power. God had not created man to desert him and leave him without protection against Satan; for the power is God’s and not the devils; "Thine is the power" (the Lord’s Prayer).

Thus, it is only through the unity of the Divinity with the Humanity that all the specifications required from a redeemer would get to be fulfilled. These specifications are:

Divinity: Through His divinity and infinite righteousness, the redeemer would pay off the punishment for our infinite sin.

Humanity: Through His humanity, the redeemer would represent man who had sinned and had been sentenced to die in order to pay the price which is death itself. "And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifested in the flesh" (1 Timothy 3:16).

Redemption Resided in the Incarnation
Because man sinned against the infinite God; his sin was limitless demanding limitless punishment which could not be atoned for through man’s limited capacity for repentance. Man’s nature had become corrupted by sin; and so required a limitless atonement. Who is limitless except God Himself? God Himself had to take upon Himself the redeeming and atoning act in order to rescue man from this eternal death.

Terms of Redemption
God’s justice demands that the redeemer be:

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:406 | date:2023-01-13T20:36:24 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

Pure, Holy, and without Sin. Man has certainly fallen short of these qualities because "they have all turned aside; they have together become unprofitable; There is none who does good, no, not one" (Romans 3:12).

Omnipotent. It requires someone stronger than the enemy to defeat him. Only God is stronger than Satan, the accuser and manipulator. He is the only one who could pay off man’s debts and remove his unlimited sin. No one is omnipotent but God.

Of Human Nature. The verdict was decreed against man. Therefore neither an animal nor an angel was eligible to revert it. The former is not human and the latter is a spirit.

Willing to die for Man. For God to fulfill His ultimate justice He would not impose atonement. It has to be a voluntary, unconditional love act. Thus the imminence of the Incarnation becomes evident. It is impossible for man to be redeemed from his fallen nature except by God Himself. Through His Incarnation, He becomes representative of man, mortal like him and through his Godhead He remains omnipotent and sinless.

The Blessings of the Incarnation
Adoption. "But when the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as sons" (Galatians 4:4,5).

Partakers of the divine nature. "those who were once enlightened, and have tasted the heavenly gift, and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit" (Hebrews 6:4).

Blessed in Him. Our new man has become renewed in the Creator’s image "since you have put off the old man with his deeds" (Colossians 3:9) and our human nature has become blessed in him after He has given our nature the spirit of power and victory. "But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you" (Acts 1:8).

God's proximity to us. God became close to man "That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, concerning the Word of life" (1 John 1:1).

Establishment of Peace on Earth. "And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men!" (Luke 2:13,14).

Source: Bishop Youssef, 
              Coptic Orthodox
              Diocese of the Southern 
              United States

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:409 | date:2023-01-14T20:30:40 ---


--- id:410 | date:2023-01-14T20:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the mystery of the #Trinity

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance website; we send you the following basic lesson on the mistery of the Trinity because today is the yearly feast of the Holy Trinity, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

👉 Mystery

The basis and center of religious education is the acceptance of God. Next questions: Who is God? How his character revealed? Does it have a body? etc., are answered with the list of religious education; and this education is called a mystery because it is understood only by faith. So, mystery in this lesson mean spiritual, subtle, invisible, unknown, admirable and understood only by faith. Because either it is revealed by the extent of faith; but for those who do not believe, it is a hidden secret. Because, it cannot be reached through physical knowledge and scientific wisdom. Or, even if we say that we know and understand it, it is said that it is impossible to know the full extent of the mystery, except that we might   understand only to the extent that it is enough for the survival of the soul .

👉 Trinity

Trinity is a noun derived from the Geez verb that means three. This is the lesson we learn about the trinity of God's body. Trinity is very different from three. For three speaks of three different things, and trinity speaks of three things in one thing. Therefore, when talking about trinity, it is necessary to talk about unity. 

Therefore, in the mystery of the Trinity, we learn not only about the threeness of God's body, but also about the unity of his character. In short, Trinity is the teaching that God is one and three. 

Their trinity is:- in name, in task, and in body.

Their unity is :- in character, in divinity, in power, in rulling, in will, in creating this world from non-existence to existence, as well as in feeding creation, protecting it, and in suspending this world.

Trinity means: Father has perfect form, perfect face, perfect body. And the Son has a perfect form, a perfect face and a perfect body. The Holy Spirit has a perfect form, a perfect face and a perfect body. The Father's body is always the Father's. The Son's body is always the Son's; The body of the Holy Spirit is always the Holy Spirit. That is, the bodies do not change, do not exchange, do not absorb. In their position, in their appearance and in their name, they will remain forever on their own. The names by which the bodies are called also remain unchanged for their bodies. Therefore, just as we say that the Trinity is three in body, so we say three in their name as well; and these Trinity Names are: Father, Son, Holy Spirit, (Matthew 28:19  ; Psalm 33:14, 118:73, Isaiah 66:1, Genesis 18:1-4 Matthew 3:16)  

(የግብር ሦስትነት ስንል፦ አብ ወላዲ አስራጺ ነው፤ ወልድ ተወላዲ ነው፤ መንፈስ ቅዱስ ሰራጺ ነው። )

Let's look at what the Bible says about the unity and trinity of the Mystery of the Trinity:

In the Old Testament

1.  "God said: let us make man in our image, after our likeness" (Genesis 1:26) Here: "God said" indicates unity, while "let us create man in our image" describes being more than one.

2.   "The Lord God said, Adam became as one of us to know good and evil" (Genesis 3:22). Here, "God said" refers to oneness, while "as one of us" refers to more than one.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:411 | date:2023-01-14T20:33:01 ---
(continued part) 👆

3.  When God willed to create Eve, who will be his helper for Adam: “And the LORD God said, it is not good that the man should be alone; Let's create a suitable assistant for him” (Genesis 2:18). Here also, "God said" refers to oneness, while "Let’s create" refers to more than one.

4.  Another one, when the sons of Noah rebelled against God and started building a tower in the field of Sanatsor: "God said, Come, let us go down, as if they had lost their language there so that one would not hear the words of the other". Here, the word 'God said' indicates unity and the word 'let's go. down' indicates that there is more than one.

So, the verses we mentioned above are saying that God is one in character, divinity, creating and sustaining this world, and not one in body. However, they do not clearly explain that it is three, except that it is not physically one. However, when we continue reading the bible through, it is known that God is three in body. For example:-

5.  When God revealed himself to Abraham, "At noon, while he was sitting at the door of his tent, God appeared to him through the tree of Meri. He lifted up his eyes and saw three men standing before him. When he saw them, he ran from the door of the tent to meet them. He bowed to the earth. He said, "Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, I beg you not to let your servant pass over me." "And he lifted up his eyes and behold, he saw three men standing before him," and the saying that God is three in person (Trinity). And in the speech of Abraham, "O Lord, if I have found favor in your sight, I beseech you not to let your servant pass away from me." This indicates that God is one in character, will and power.

6.  In addition; When the prophet Isaiah explained the trinity, "I saw God sitting on a long and high throne, and the area of his garment filled the temple. ..And the seraphim were standing above him. And they were shouting to each other: "Holy, Holy, Holy, the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory." The word refers to the unity and trinity of the Trinity. (Isaiah 6:3)

The New Testament

1.  The New Testament is an age of revelation. And it is God Himself who is revealed. The revelation that has been revealed in this age is very unique and clear compared to the revelation that was revealed to others in different ways previously. St. Paul explained this as follows: "Since ancient times, God has spoken to our fathers through prophets in many ways, and He has spoken to us at the end of this age through His Son, whom He made the heir of all things, and through whom He created the worlds." (Hebrews 1:1)

The physical word Jesus Christ taught in different ways that God is three in body, task, name, and unity, and one in character, will, and power, creating and sustaining the world. Occasionally, the trinity of God is revealed in an audible and visible body. For example, at the time of the baptism, on Matthew 3:16-17, he made it clear that there are three bodies: the Father who made a sound from heaven, the Holy Spirit who came down in the form of a dove, and the Son who stood in the middle of the Jordan in human flesh, and the three bodies have three names: Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And to see how the names were distinguished-  In heaven, "This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased." His fatherhood is known and called Father. And he said that Jesus is my son, so he is called son. It is clearly written that the one who came down in the form of a dove is the Holy Spirit as the Spirit of God, so we call the Trinity three by name. 

2.  Also, "Go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you" is a powerful word that expresses unity and trinity indicating their name. (Matthew 28:19)

(to be continued)👇

--- id:412 | date:2023-01-14T20:36:01 ---
(continued part)👇

3.   "I and the Father are one. He who has seen me has seen the Father. Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me?" (John 14:9:10)

4.  Prophet Malachi said in his prophecy, "Do we not all have one father?" Didn't one God create us? He said that God is one in creating. (Mal 2:10)

5.  The prophet Iyasas said, "He is the God who created the heavens, who made the earth and established it... God says this. "I am God and there is no other besides me," he wrote emphasizing that God is one in creating and ruling.

A Christian who does not believe in the unity and trinity of the Trinity will never find the forgiveness of sins and the hope of heaven.

The Trinity brought all visible and invisible creations from non-existence into existence and created them.
The Trinity, was existing before the world, their charactor praising one another, and still is, and will forever. However, it is explained in the holy books that they created men and angels to inherit their glory in order to praise their name so that their glory would not remain in their character. But we understand the other creation to be created for memory, memory, food, meat, and soul. They appointed the human being as the first-born ruler of all creatures on earth. (Ps 8:6)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:417 | date:2023-01-15T20:30:51 ---
👉🏾 About #repentance, #confession and prayer of  #absolution 

👉Question፦ I was once told that the prayer of absolution at the beginning of the Divine Liturgy Service can be considered as forgiveness of sin before partaking in the Sacrament of Holy Communion is this Orthodox practice? Can this be considered a substitute for confession of you didn't have time to meet with your priest before?

👉Answer: If we understand the purpose of the question correctly: In the Liturgy, after the prayer, the priest blesses the people with a cross saying, 'May God forgive', does this system of atonement for sins replace the system where we will personally go to the Father of repentance and confess our sins and receive forgiveness of sins? Also, if we approach any priest in person (without confessing our sins) and say 'God forgive you' and bless us with a cross, will all our sins be forgiven? Before we answer these questions, it is appropriate to look at the types of sin.  

Types of sin: Although there are many types and methods of sin, they can be divided into 3 categories. These are of thought, speech, and action. The basis of sin is thought. Because no one commits any sin unintentionally. If something happens unexpectedly, it is not often questioned; But he will be punished for not being careful in his simplicity. Therefore, every human being must get rid of the thoughts that are the root of sin. When it is thought of, he must immediately correct himself by calling upon God's name and condemning Satan.

Constantly thinking about something wrong reveals a willingness to do it. He will become addicted to it. This will count as done. In other words, it is a matter of time, place, and situation that he was not able to do it, because if it is convenient for him, he wouldn't  hesitate to do it. In fact, if after he has spent a lot effort, he allows himself to commit his sin but faces an obstacle that is beyond his control and returns, it is considered that he has already committed , it and committed a complete wrongdoing.

Also, a person may see, hear, or speak evil things while walking, or wherever he is. But if he realizes that this is an offense and immediately calls upon the name of God and condemns Satan and abandons him, and does not follow his thoughts, it is not considered an offense. But if he is still eager to watch, hear, and talk about that thing, and if he is motivated to make that thing happen, then he will be considered to have put all this into action, committed wrongdoing, and committed a sin. On the other hand, there is a reason why a sin committed instantly without thinking about it is not considered a major sin, and we have explained this above, but there will be a canon that finds it as it is.

When the priests pray that God will forgive us, which of these types of sins (thoughts, words, deeds) will be forgiven?👇

As we have seen above, every evil desire that a person has taken out and brought down in his inner conscience and has not yet put into action is called a sin of thought. The sin that is thought in the heart is called the sin of speech when it is spoken by the mouth. If the sin that is said orally is put into action, it is called the sin of action.

(Continues )👇

--- id:418 | date:2023-01-15T20:30:51 ---
(continued part)👆👇

Therefore, if it is not spoken in the heart and not put into action, God is the one who knows the intended sin, and examines the heart and kidneys (who knows/examines all our innermost being). Hence the minor sins and offences that we commit without knowing or the offences we have forgotten can be with the prayer initial prayer during liturgy. Therefore, it is appropriate to come to the priest and confess from the heart and say, "Father, forgive me" for the small sins that we commit without thinking or konwing that it is a sin. Because if the priest draws on the cross and says, "May God set you free", the evil spirit that fights within us will be thrown away like an old garment. However, it is necessary to understand that this does not make us regret the grave wrongdoing we have done in words or actions, and we must repent for this.

Also, if we intend to do it in our hearts as described above, but if we do not succeed, even if we give up, it is considered that we have committed the major sin, so we should repent and forgive me; The conscience will be free.

As a conclusion, we must always understand that repentance is not a human command, but a Creator's directive. Jesus said “And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 16᎓19)

Therefore, our questioner, while we are explaining the system so that you can understand it, if you have any questions that are not clear or have not been answered, please let us know and we will give you a further explanation. 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:419 | date:2023-01-15T20:37:02 ---
👉🏾 About #sin, #fornication, #confession, #fear, #repentance 

👉Question: I have issues sleeping becauseI have so many thoughts inside that I am not at peace. I was touched by your recent post which makes me long for my father's house (God), I miss my childhood, I am in my late twenties, I have no peace at all, I am stuck in the pit of sin and I have no way out. I am in the sin of which I have repeatedly repented; I've repented a couple of times but I'm still back there. My current boyfriend (not marriage) is a Muslim, I had a repentant father but I lost the ability to talk about my work in front of my father. Repentance. Even if I see my father on the street, I hide because I am afraid. If I pass them, I stay away from the church. I've been thinking about breaking up with this friend for a year now, but I can't. I do not have the courage to ask God for forgiveness for the sins that I have committed and that I do not hate. I feel afraid when I think about repenting. I have no peace in my house, no comfort except weeping and tears. But now, the abyss of sin that I have sunk into has made me feel numb and my tears have dried up. I have no peace in my heart. I have moved away from the house of my God. What is better for me? I miss the day when I can go back to my father's house.

✍️Answer:- This is a question of many people, there are many who are lost in this problem. May God protect you, we beseech the Mother of God, the Virgin Mary, to embrace and support you as a shadow and to take you out of the pit you have entered into, from the temptation you have entered; May the help of the Virgin Mary be with us all.

Our dear member told us about the evil and consequences of sin; Indeed, sin means to lose, to be deprived, to be away, to be lost, to be separated. When we list the loss, as our quesioner said, it means loss of peace, help, and sleep. Sin creates conflict with self, family. A sinful man has no love, no obedience, no humility; A sinful man has no blessing, no help, no peace in his home, and no peace in the country; If there is too much of a sinful person, peace will be destroyed and love will disappear.

Sin makes us lose God. And God is the owner of everything, the owner of peace, the owner of blessings, the owner of help, so if we lose God, what life can we have? When the devil became a creature, he lost God when he said, "I am the creator, I am God." To desire what is not one's own is a sin. Adam lost God because he ate figs that were said not to eat in the garden and broke God's commandment. It means that it is a sin that destroys everything.
 
How can we live without God because of sin? John told us in chapter 15 verse 5 "without me you can do nothing", so He Himself told us that we can do nothing without God. Without God there is no peace. This is why Saint John the Baptist said, "He who raises himself in repentance is better than he who raises death." It is true.

Our dear member has shared their problems with us very well. All of us members of John's Repentance page should do our best to help this member out of this trouble. It was a man who had two children, the younger son told his father to share your money with him and left. When he ran out of money and had nothing to eat, he missed my father's house, and he thought, "How can I die of hunger in my father's house, full of food and drink?" He was ashamed of what he had done, he regretted it. God brought him back home.

(Continues)👇

--- id:420 | date:2023-01-15T20:40:02 ---
(Continued) 👇

He went to his father's house and begged his father's forgiveness. When his father saw him, he felt sorry for him and ran to hug him. The father also ordered his servants to slaughter a fat cow and eat it. Let's rejoice because that lost son of mine has been found. My son who I said was dead has been saved and put a ring on his finger and shoes for his feet. The word "shoe" means "teach him religion, teach him the gospel, preach to him." This is a great example, those who were at home did not sin. The prodigal son means the one who committed a sin, and the father is God our father, he accepted and kissed him, it means he died for him, Frieda killed means he gave them his holy body and his precious blood.

Therefore, our questioner, you must realize above all else that while it is good if we do not commit sin, if we do, our last option and the way to be reconciled with God is repentance. Basically, there will never be a sin that has never been committed by a human being, and we are asking you to understand that what happened to you is a type of sin that a person commits and is forgiven in a life of repentance. In general, we recommend the following to solve your problem:

  - Father of Repentance: Repentance is done through fathers and priests who have been given priesthood authority by God to be shepherds of souls, so there should be no shameful or unspeakable secret to tell your repentant father, so we say you should dare to tell your sin. And God is not a God of fear, but a God of love and peace, who raises up those who have fallen in sin and says, "Take heart, my son," and find us where we are lost. Therefore, somehow fight and get rid of the evil spirit that opposes you and come closer to repentance. Instead, what scares us and makes us feel naked is living in sin, and what hides our shame before our God is not clothes, but repentance. Spiritual clothing is honor and covers privacy. Even if we live in a beautiful house in the clothes of the flesh, if we do not repent, our soul will be naked.

- Delaying and aggravating fear for reasons is one of Satan's battles, and God is not the God of fear, but the God of love and peace. He is the God who lifts up those who have fallen in sin, "Courage my son" and find us where we are lost. There should be no other matter before our souls, so fight the spirit that opposes you somehow and overcome it. Since the day of salvation is now, approach the repentant father without extending the appointment date and time. Even if you believe that you have committed so many sins, there is no wrongdoing that cannot be erased by God, so we advise you to stay away from reason and fear and come closer to the forgiving God.
 
This family of ours has told us the truth. The sin we are used to becomes a family, at first when we do it, it shocks us, it makes us sad, then as we practice it, it becomes a family.
 
May God give us our hearts, may God lead us to repentance, may God make us hate sin, may God make us love what he loves. No matter what happens, everything is possible with God, nothing is impossible, it is difficult to live apart from God, sin can be overcome by using God as power.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:423 | date:2023-01-16T20:30:39 ---
👉👉👉God's #Constitution

All our beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we have sent you the following teaching about the laws of God, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

A/ The ten words of the old testament 

The ten words of the old testament are the ten words that God made a covenant with mankind.

We believe that God has given His true word that by keeping these laws, we will receive grace and blessings from God, and that if we break them, we will suffer calamities. They are as follows.

1. I am God your God, you shall worship no other god before me (Exodus 22:7)

2. Do not take the name of God your God in vain; For God will surely punish him who makes his name worthless. (Exodus 20:7).

3. Consider the Sabbath day, that you may sanctify it. (Exodus 20:1-11)

4. Honor your father and mother; In the land that God will give you so that your life will be long. (Zech 20:12)

5. Do not kill a soul (Zech 20:13).

6. Do not commit adultery (Exodus 20:14)

7. Do not steal; (Exodus 20:15)

8. Do not bear false witness against your neighbor (Exodus 20:16).

9. Do not covet everything that belongs to your neighbor (Exodus 20:17).

10. Love your neighbor as yourself (Leviticus 19:18)

Explanation

God is the supreme king, the God of gods. He is the creator and ruler of the visible and invisible worlds. He has set forth a constitution that specifically governs human beings. Therefore, it is the duty of all to preserve what he has done, as no one can undo or improve it. These laws are divided into 10 articles, and 3 of them are related to God. They are:

1/ I am God your God. You shall not worship any other god before me.

2/ Don't take God's name, your God's name in vain; For God will surely punish him who makes his name worthless.

3/ Think of the Sabbath day, that you may sanctify it.

This revelation warns us that we should not give God's worship to idols or to fortune-telling. He is the only one who should be worshipped, because worship belongs to his nature and personality.

He alone was, and He alone is, and He alone is God who lives forever.

Therefore, we should not give the honor and worship that is due to him to a foreigner because there is no one who can compete with him.

He also warns us not to invoke his name in vain. God's name is only invoked in praise and in prayer;

The 3rd paragraph urges us to celebrate God's Sabbath, which God made as a day of rest for the glory of mankind, to make it a day of rest.

On this day, he warns us not to do any other physical activities than doing charity, listening and preaching the holy word.

But the other seven clauses are what everyone who is a human being should do for himself, human beings and the like, should do and fulfill. And they are: 

1/ Honor your father and mother.

That means, think about the expenses that parents spent on your life, food, health; It means that you have to know what you owe them and be greatful for what they did for you. 

His human wisdom in honoring his parents; It is revealed that he is a higher creation. It means that all other creatures raise their children by God's natural duty, but later they never help their children, and in fact they don't even know each other. Just as parents raised children with great care, if children helped their parents well, they respected their nature and revealed their dignity.

Believe that tomorrow you will be repaid from your children, now you help and take care of your children.

2/ Do not kill

(continues)👇

--- id:424 | date:2023-01-16T20:33:02 ---
(cintinued part)👆👇

This means do not destroy God's building. Every person does not come to this world of his own free will, but God brought him and created him. Therefore, God did not create him for nothing, but to use him for a holy task. Therefore, it is a great sin to destroy a person whom God has created for a holy task. How do people tear down a building they didn't build? The owner of the building sues and fines; Therefore, human nature is greater than a building, and the human body is greater than the tower, so no one should tear it down. When you care for the soul of another, the other will care for your soul. If you don't care about the other person's life, it will threaten your own life.

3/ Do not commit adultery

This means, don't go to a woman who is not yours, and don't destroy your marriage trust or hers.

Going to a woman who is not his wife is rebellion. That is, it is considered as stealing.

Also, to mislead any woman, to commit violence against a girl is considered as allowing another to inflixt violence against our family, that is, against our mother, out wife, and our sister.

The wordings we use may seem that these things only apply to men but it also applies for women because it is wrong to go to a man who is not her husband.

4/ Don't steal

This means: He warns that one should not take something that one has not worked hard for, that is not one's property and wealth. Stealing is like killing a soul in secret. That is, if he takes away the wealth of one who eats, drinks, and sustains his life, then the person from whom this is taken away will no longer have enough to sustain themselves and will lose hope. 

And as you steal another's wealth, others will steal yours. If that is the case, one cannot become wealthy and there will be no peace on earth. Therefore, do not steal so that your wealth and your life will be protected.

5/ Don't bear false witness against your neighbor

This means, don't bear false witness against your neighbor because you may cause a loss of wealth, a loss of rights, a loss of life or something similar.

Also, don't give false testimony to your friend or family after being bribed for your personal gain. Tomorrow they will bear false witness against you and take away your wealth and property. Moreover, they will destroy your life, so say the truth is the truth and the lie is a lie. 

6/ Do not covet your neighbor's wealth;

One should work and eat from the fruits of their labor but not covet the belongings of another. Desire is the root of all sins so we must be careful with what we desire so we don't commit any sins. 

A wise man cuts off evil desire from her conception so he doesn't have to deal with her fruits. 

7/ Love your neighbor as yourself;

A companion means all that is human by nature. Whether he comes from afar, whether he is a neighbor, we must treat and love everyone because he is our fellow man. He is our brother and neighbor, therefore, everyone should love, respect and help each other.

And the love should not only be verbal or just to be seen and heard, but it should be a love that is manifested by work and help. Think that others may be starving as you can starve, think that others may not have peace as you can lose peace. And when you do it in this way, the other person will do the same for you. At this time, problems will disappear from the human side. It is because "if a relative had been a helper, trouble would not have hurt."

This last paragraph sums up all the other nine paragraphs; It means that because this fulfilled, all others will be fulfilled, and because he will be destroyed, all others will be destroyed. For example, if a person loves his God, he will not give his worship to a foreign God, he will not call his name in vain, and he will not completely break his laws, because God protects him from many mistakes.

And if he loves his neighbor, he will not kill him. He does not covet his wealth; He will not steal it; He will not testify falsely. In fact, instead of this, he thinks, speaks, and acts for his fellow man.

(continues )👇

--- id:425 | date:2023-01-16T20:36:01 ---
(continued part)👆👇

Therefore, with the love of God and the love of neighbor, the ten words can be kept and fulfilled (Matthew 22:40). (John 10:11) The manifestation of God's love is keeping the law.

It is his love for man that raised Christ from the dead. "For there is no greater love than to give oneself as a ransom for the Son of Man" (John 15:13).

B/ the 6 words of the Gospel

1. Do not be angry with your brother in vain (Matthew 5:22-26)

2. Do not look at a woman, and do not commit adultery in your heart (Matthew 5:27).

3. Do not divorce your wife for any other reason other than adultery (Matthew 5:32).

4. Never swear (Matthew 5:34)

5. You do not oppose evil with evil. (Matthew 5:39)

6. Love your enemy (Matthew 5:45)

Explanation

(to be continued)👇

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:429 | date:2023-01-17T20:30:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Who is the Ethiopian #Orthodox Tewahedo religion?

(Part 3) 👆👇

1.   "Orthodox": The word orthodox is a combination of two Greek words. "Ortho" means straight, upright, upright. "Dox" means to interpret, to believe, to think. In general, when orthodox is solved as one name, it means straight thought, straight religion, straight teaching, straight way, true religion.

In the 4th century, that is in 325 AD, 318 scholars (fathers of the church) held a religious assembly (Synod assembly) in the city of Nicaea. Therefore; As the history of our church testifies, the scholars of this conference called it "orthodox (straight path) religion" to distinguish the true, direct unified religion from Arius' denial and apostasy.

Therefore, the name "Orthodox" was started in our church in 325 A.D. in the international church conference in Nicaea. The 318 scholars of the church gathered in Nicaea and rejected Arius, confirmed the religion, agreed and prayed over it to call their religion "Orthodox". The Orthodox Church is an apostolic, unaltered, apostolic, direct religion.

Prophet Jeremiah, speaking about the true and straight path (religion), said, "Ask for the first, straight path, and walk in it, and you will find rest for your souls" (Jer 6:16).

Our Lord Jesus Christ said, "I am the way, the truth, the life" (John 14:6).

In his letter to his fellow Hebrews (followers), the Apostle St. Paul taught about the early and first direct religion by saying: "Let us hold fast to our first faith to the end" (Hebrews 3:14).

2. "Tawahdo"  (Geʽez: ተዋሕዶ) is a Geʽez word meaning "united as one".
This word is used for the mystery of The Trinity and the mystery of incarnation. In the history of the Church, this term was widely defined after the Council of Ephesus (431)

According to the history of the church, in 431 AD. 200 bishops (church fathers) gathered in a synodal assembly in the city of Ephesus. This was due to the fact that Nestorius, who was the archbishop of Constantinople, began to teach publicly that "God dwells with man, as he dwells with the righteous." Then 200 scholars under the leadership of St. Cyril held a conference in Ephesus and criticized Nestorus and the evangelist said, "The Word became flesh" according to Acts 1:14, "The Word became flesh, which is like the union of soul and body." They explained the union of divinity and flesh: God, the Son, conceived in the virgin Mary: from her flesh, took flesh; From her soul, took soul;  "Word and flesh, united and glorified." Therefore, on the word 'Orthodox'; By adding the word 'Tawahdo'; The bishops, in this conference, decided to call it "Orthodox Tewahedo Religion". And Nestorus, who continued his rebellion of disbelief by saying that he would not return from his disbelief through teaching and discipline; They condemned him and separated him from the church.

"Adam became like one of us" according to Genesis 3:22, the first divinity was reckoned to him at the time of his incarnation, the son of God the Father became the son of the Virgin Mary. The Son of a Virgin was called the Son of God the Father. 

Duality is lost in fusion; Therefore, the orthodox doctrine of the flesh is this:

- Immutability - When the Word becomes flesh, it is not through transformation. Heb 7, John 1:14-16, James 1:17, Zechariah 3:6, "I, God, do not change."

- without leaving - Divinity did not leave the body after saving the world. Jeremiah 16:16 
- Deity is not temporarily incarnated, but a perfect fusion. Therefore, when he says, "the Word became flesh," it is not a merger, but a perfect union.

- Without changing, God became man without changing his divinity. 

(continues👇)

--- id:430 | date:2023-01-17T20:44:58 ---
This doctrine of the mystery of incarnation is that God was born in the flesh of the Virgin Mary and the Holy Virgin Mary was called the Mother of God (Theotokos) because she gave birth to God in the flesh (Luke 1:35).

In Orthodox Tewahedo, religion is given the highest priority. "Without religion it is impossible to please God" Heb 11:6, as the apostle revealed, religion is the basis of our existence. (Mathew 16:18) God's kingdom is inherited through religion. Orthodox Tewahedo begins its religious education by teaching the existence of God. In Orthodox Tewahedo's teaching, God's existence is the pre-world, the after-world in unity and the unique trinity in unity, who is alive before the ages and after the ages (Alpha and Omega). He who is praised for his existence for countless ages, whose name is God in unity, whose name is Father, Son and Holy Spirit in trinity, who brought the living worlds from non-existence to existence, the law of the universe, the creator of the worlds, the perfect infallible, holy, kind, true judge, all The Orthodox Tewahedo religion believes and teaches that the All-Knowing and All-Powerful One, Who preserves and nourishes the worlds, is the source of holiness, whose name is God.

Therefore, when we say Orthodox Tewahedo religion, we believe in the unity and trinity of God, and the belief that there is a God (creator) that we cannot see with our physical eyes, touch with our hands, and cannot reach by research. Through the laws of nature, He created heaven and earth, darkness and light, day and night, man and angels, wild animals and animals, crops and vegetables, creatures that move on land and sea, crawl on their chests, and fly on their wings, a total of 22 creatures. 'Orthodox Tewahedo Religion' is the direct way to acknowledge the creator who feeds and guides all creatures. This is the main secret that makes it different from other types of faith. Because not all faith is religion. For example: those who believe in Satan, those who believe in idols, those who believe in the spirit of kings, those who worship fire, river, tree, stone, various spirits, we do not call all the beliefs that people believe a 'religion'. The true and direct religion is the wealth of the Holy Spirit given to believe in God alone as God, Creator, and Sustainer. 

  Morality: Morality is taught in Orthodox Tewahedo and given the highest place after religion. Morality is inseparable from faith. People who don't understand the teachings of the Bible say, "Only believe and you will be saved," interpreting the teachings of the apostles to their own will and carelessly changing the hearts and virtues of gentle people. The apostle Saint James said, "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food; And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone." Jah 2:14-17 explains. Just as a fruitless tree is cut down, we have faith that is not manifested in works, if we do not do good, we are worthless. He said, "For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." Matthew 5.20

(continues)👇

--- id:433 | date:2023-01-17T20:52:20 ---
Continues 👇

Because the people whom Satan once used for his own purpose are in the dark, he blocks that line of good thinking so that they don't think about the good and the truth, so they boldly start blaspheming and even insulting God. Therefore, our seeing of everything, our spiritual eye to see everything is religion. Religion is not only for our heavenly life, but for all our earthly life. Instead, we become slaves when we use our free will for evil and separate from God.

First of all, considering the boarder picture, where did the human nature come from? how did it came about? This should be clear to us. The first thing is to believe in nature, even without going into the Holy Bible, St. Paul tells us that "God created you, that you believe in God's existence, that God is your creator, the creator of all creatures, you are a law unto yourselves."

In general, it is not possible to please God without religion." Heb 11:6 As the apostle revealed, religion is the basis of our existence. Matthew 16:18 The kingdom of God is inherited through religion. Therefore, religion does not make a slave but a child. Religious education begins with existence of God, so it is appropriate to learn this education first. For this, we entrust you to look at the religious education we posted earlier in this telegram page. In addition, morality is the commandment of God, so it occupies the highest position after religion. Therefore, if we use our free will and obey God and live according to religion and morals, we are not slaves, but we are called children or masters, and above all, we are called children of God who will inherit the kingdom of heaven.

to be continued

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:438 | date:2023-01-18T20:50:26 ---


--- id:439 | date:2023-01-18T20:50:40 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the feast of #Epiphaby 

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about the feast of Epiphaby because it is important to understand this foundational mystery of the Church.

The month of January brings to us several feasts: the beginning of the new year, the Nativity, the circumcision, the Epiphany. We thank God who gave us the blessing and the efficiency of all these feasts, in our lives. While we celebrate the glorious feast of the Ephiphany, we are glad to stop sometime for meditation:

The feast of Epiphany is the feast of Baptism. This feast is also called the feast of the divine manifestation (the Theophania).

Because the Holy Trinity appeared in it: The Son is baptised, The Father says from heaven: “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased”, and The Holy Spirit appears “like of a dove” (Matt. 3: 16-17). Hence the baptism of the Lord Christ shows the creed of the Holy Trinity.

Thus the baptism is always in the Name of the Holy Trinity
According to the word of the Lord to His disciples before His Ascension: “Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit” (Matt. 28:19). He did not say in the names, because the three are one, as it was mentioned in (1 John 5:7): “For there are three that bear witness in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit; and these three are one”.

Because in it, the Church reminds the people that the Lord Christ was baptized by being immersed, as it was said that after being baptized, “When He has been baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water” (Matt. 3:16). The Church also reminds the people that the faithful in the New Testament are being baptized by being immersed, (and not by being sprinkled with water, as it is done in some communities). The Ethiopian eunuch was baptized in this manner, at the beginning of the apostolic era, at the hands of Philip: “Now when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away” (Acts 8:39).Also because Baptism is a tincture, (Baptisma in Latin), and tinting is accomplished through immersion; and because Baptism is a burial with Christ (Col. 2:12), and burial is accomplished through placing inside the tomb (immersion), and cannot be represented by sprinkling with water

Likewise in all the ancient vestiges, we see that baptism was accomplished inside a recipient that was called the baptistery.

That proves that baptizing was accomplished through immersion, and not by sprinkling water. We remember, during this feast, many spiritual and doctrinal meanings, whether as regards the baptism of the Lord Christ at the hands of John the Baptist, or as regards the importance of Baptism in the Chuch

We remember also that the Lord came to the baptism of John, while He was not in need of it.
But that was in order “to fulfill all righteousness”, so that He would be without blame before men, even while He is not in need. That also establishes before us the principle of obedience and the principle of loyalty, without asking what profit it is to us?

He entered the baptism of John also in order to be our representative, or to take our place, just as He fasted instead of us, and just as He was crucified instead of us.

Many of His actions were for the others and not for Himself. He took our place to present to God the Father an image of the perfect man, who satisfies the Father by His life, as well He satisfies Him by His redemption of the human kind.In His baptism, we remember his humility

We remember His love and His fidelity, and His tenderness in His conversation with John, when He says: “Permit it to be so now”.
The baptism of Christ also reminds us of our baptism , and of the care of the Church for Baptism.

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:440 | date:2023-01-18T20:50:40 ---
Continued 👇

Baptism is the first sacrament of the Church, and is the door through which we enter to the other sacraments.
We say vulgarily: “we have Christianized so and so”, that is: we have baptized him; because he has become a Christian through baptism. …..That is an expression which is sound in its doctrinal meaning, and which reminds us of the word of Christ: “He who believes and is baptized will
be saved” (Mark 16:16).

Therefore the day of baptism is a feast as regards the child and his family.
In that day, the Church gives him three sacraments: Baptism, Confirmation, and Eucharist also; and makes him ready to participate in the life of the Church. He becomes a member in it, and takes the first ecclesiastical certificate in his life.

The Church assigns a sponsor to the child, who will care for him/her spiritually. This sponsor is to have the same gender as the child and is picked based on their spiritual strengths by the child's parents and is engaged before God and the Church to take care of her child in the fear of God, and to be his first teacher, who instructs him, and who gives him the practical training for all religious matters. This person is know as (ክርስትና አባት/እናት) in Amharic.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:444 | date:2023-01-19T20:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾God's #Constitution

(part 2)

All our beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page; recall that we have prepared the lesson we got from the book of Christian doctrine regarding the laws of God and made it available to you in part one. Today we have sent you the short part two lesson as follows, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

B/ The 6 words of the Gospel

1. Do not be angry with your brother in vain (Matthew 5:22-26)

2. Do not look at a woman to lust, and do not commit adultery in your heart (Matthew 5:27).

3. Do not divorce your wife for any other reason other than adultery (Matthew 5:32).

4. Never swear (Matthew 5:34)

5. Do not oppose evil with evil. (Matthew 5:39)

6. Love your enemy (Matthew 5:45)

Explanation

1. Do not be angry with your brother in vain (Matthew 5:22-26)

Everyone who is human is your brother and your friend. So don't hate him, don't fight him, don't be angry with him. For they rise from sudden anger to murder; Therefore, first of all, keep your anger away from you, for the holy spirit cannot live with an angry person.

2. Do not look at a woman with lust, and do not commit adultery in your heart (Matthew 5:27).

This means that you must not see with your eyes and have feelings - do not commit adultery in your heart. The eye sees everything, but you choose what to send to the heart and to the mind. Therefore, do not look at a woman with evil desire and do not desire in your heart to commit adultery. For thought always turns into action.

As the eye sees many things and ignores many things, when you see a woman, you must also ignore any unsain thoughts. And vice versa for women. 

3. Do not divorce your wife for any other reason other than adultery (Matthew 5:32).

Remember that husband and wife are one body. What God has joined together, no one can separate (Matthew 19:6). Therefore, this verse warns that no one should divorce his wife for any reason.

When we look at the creation, for Adam and Eve; God only gave Adam to Eve and only Eve to Adam. This indicates that since a man can only have one woman and a woman can only have one man, it means that they should not divorce or separate after they have agreed to marry.

4. Never swear (Matthew 5:34)
That means that even if you get into an argument regarding your wealth, your right, your life, your property and are asked to swear, you should not swear at all.

It indicates that swearing is absolutely forbidden, let alone falsely, even if it is true; Because it is taking God's name in vain (Leviticus 19:12).

5. You do not oppose evil with evil. (Matthew 5:39)

This means that if something bad happens to you from someone, try to be patient, but don't say that I should do bad to him as he has done bad to me. It means that you should not avenge an evil person with evil. He said this to teach us the importance of living in peace and harmony with everyone

6. Love your enemy (Matthew 5:45)

  This means agree with everyone, love each other and never have an enemy; It means that if you have a fight with someone, don't see them as enemies, instead treat them as your friends.

Christ is perfect in loving everyone. As you are his follower, be perfect in loving everyone (Matthew 5:44-46).

C / The 6 words of the gospel
(to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:448 | date:2023-01-20T20:32:45 ---


--- id:449 | date:2023-01-20T20:32:45 ---


--- id:450 | date:2023-01-20T20:32:45 ---


--- id:451 | date:2023-01-20T20:33:20 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the sacrement of the #Eucharist  

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about the sacrement of the Eucharist so that you read, understand and participate in this foundational mystery of the Church.

👉 Institution of the Sacrament

Our Lord instituted this Sacrament on Covenant Thursday, just a few hours before His arrest and trial. After He had washed the feet of the disciples as a sign of their repentance and preparation, “He took bread, blessed it and broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, ‘Take, eat; this is My body.’ Then He took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, ‘Drink from it all of you. For this is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins’” (Mt 26:26-28) St. Paul said, “The Lord Jesus on the same night in which He was betrayed took bread; and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, ‘Take, eat; this is My body which is broken for you; do this in remembrance of Me.’ In the same manner He also took the cup after supper, saying, ‘This cup is the new covenant in My blood. This do, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me.’ For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death till He comes” (1 Cor 11:23-26)

👉 Symbols of the Eucharist in the Old Testament

The offering of Melchizedek (bread & wine) was a symbol of this Holy Sacrament, “Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine; he was the priest of God Most High” (Gen 14:18). This is the first verse in Holy Scripture where the word “priest” was used and it is interesting to notice the connection between the priesthood of Melchizedek and the offering of bread and wine. Therefore, it was said about our Lord, “You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek” (Ps 110:4; Heb 5:6)

The Passover lamb that the children of Israel offered on the night of their exodus from Egypt, and which they used to offer every year thereafter was a symbol of this Sacrament “For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us” (1 Cor 5:7)

The manna that the children of Israel ate in the wilderness of Sinai for forty years was a symbol of the Sacrament of Eucharist. Our Lord said, “This is the bread which came down from heaven – not as your fathers ate the manna, and are dead. He who eats this bread will live forever” (Jn 6:58) – “I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever and the bread that I shall give is My flesh” (Jn 6:51)

👉 The Question of the Real Presence

Our Lord spoke about this Sacrament openly to the Jews but they “quarreled among themselves saying, ‘How can this Man give us His flesh to eat?’” (Jn 6:52).

Moreover, many of the disciples protested saying, “This is a hard saying; who can understand it?” (Jn 6:60). When Lord Jesus explicitly emphasized His real presence in the Sacrament, it was written, “many of His disciples went back and walked with Him no more” (Jn 6:66)

The question of the real presence is of considerable importance in relation to the differences, which have emerged within Christianity since the time of the so-called ‘Reformation’. A particularly important witness to the early Christian understanding of this Sacrament is provided by the ‘Catechetical lectures’ of St. Cyril of Jerusalem. This series of 24 lectures of instruction on the beliefs and practices of the Christian Church, given at some point around 350 AD to those preparing for baptism, are an important witness to the ideas that prevailed in the Jerusalem Church around this point. It is clear that St. Cyril regarded the bread and wine as becoming the real body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ:

Continued 👇

--- id:452 | date:2023-01-20T20:36:02 ---
Continued 👆

“[Jesus Christ], by his own will, once changed water into wine at Cana of Galilee. So why should we not believe that he can change wine into blood? … We should therefore have full assurance that we are sharing in the body and blood of Christ. For in the type of bread, his body is given to you, and in the type of wine, his blood is given to you, so that by partaking of the body and blood of Christ you may become of one body and one blood with Him.” (St. Cyril of Jerusalem)

St. John of Damascus wrote the following about the question of how this transformation of the bread and wine takes place:

“And now you ask how the bread becomes the body of Christ, and the wine and the water become the blood of Christ. I shall tell you. The Holy Spirit comes upon them, and achieves things which surpass every word and thought … Let it be enough for you to understand that this takes place by the Holy Spirit” (St. John of Damascus).

👉 Benefits of the Sacrament

Abiding in Lord Jesus Christ: “He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him” (Jn 6:56). Consequently we bear the fruits of the spirit, “He who abides in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit; for without Me you can do nothing” (Jn 15:5)

Obtaining Eternal Life: “Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day… He who eats this bread will live forever” (Jn 6:54,58)

Growth & Maintenance of Our Spiritual Life: “Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you… For My flesh is food indeed, and My blood is drink indeed… he who feeds on Me will live because of Me” (Jn 6:53,55,57)

Salvation & Remission of Sins: “This is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins” (Mt 26:28)

Unification of Believers: “For we, being many, are one bread and one body; for we all partake of that one bread” (1 Cor 10:17)

👉 Consequences of Unworthy Communion

St. Paul said, “Whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning (recognizing clearly) the Lord’s body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep (die). For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged.” (1 Cor 11:27-31)

Continued 👇

--- id:454 | date:2023-01-20T20:39:36 ---
👉 The Meaning of Worthiness

Orthodox Faith: The person who approaches the Eucharist must be an Orthodox Christian having no doubt concerning the bread & wine being the true body and precious blood of Lord Jesus Christ.

Repentance & Confession: The person must be practicing the Sacrament of Repentance and Confession on regular basis as St. Paul said, “let a man examine himself” (1 Cor 11:28)

Reconciliation With Others: Lord Jesus Christ said, “If you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar, and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come offer your gift” (Mt 5:23-24)

True Worthiness is Feeling Unworthy: St. Paul, the meek and humble apostle said, “I know nothing against myself, yet I am not justified by this” (1 Cor 4:4)

Obeying The Church Rules: concerning food abstinence before communion, physical cleanliness, and early attendance of the liturgy.

👉 The Eucharist as a Sacrifice

The Orthodox Church believes and confesses that the Eucharist is a sacrifice and an offering to God in addition to being a Sacrament. The following supports this belief:

The words of Lord Jesus Christ Himself, “This is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many” (Mt 26:28; Mk 14:24) – “This cup is the new covenant in My blood, which is shed for you” (Lk 22:20) – “This is My body which is broken for you” (1 Cor 11:24) – “This is My body which is given for you” (Lk 22:19). Undoubtedly, the terms “broken body” and “shed blood” refer to a sacrifice.

The presence of an altar in the Church confirms that the Eucharist is a sacrifice. St. Paul said, “We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle (Jews) have no right to eat” (Heb 13:10). Isaiah the Prophet said, “In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt” (Is 19:19), this is a specific prophecy about the Coptic (Egyptian) Church which proves the presence of altars in the Christian era and consequently the presence of a sacrifice (the Eucharist).

Malachi the Prophet prophesied about the New Testament offering saying, “I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, nor will I accept an offering from your hands. For from the rising of the sun even to its going down, My name shall be great among the Gentiles; In every place incense shall be offered to My name, and a pure offering; For My name shall be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts” (Mal 1:10-11). This “pure offering” is nothing but the Eucharistic offering that Christians offer on their altars, for at which point in history did the Gentiles “in every place” offer an offering to the Lord?

St. Paul said, “Observe Israel after the flesh: Are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? What am I saying then? That an idol is anything, or what is offered to idol is anything (else)? Rather, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice they sacrifice to demons and not to God, and I do not want you to have fellowship with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the Lord’s table and the table of demons” (1 Cor 10:18-21). The apostle is comparing the table (altar) of the Lord to the altar of the pagans upon which unacceptable demonic sacrifices were offered, which proves that the Eucharist that is offered on the Christian altar is indeed a sacrifice.

Source: ‘The Church Sacraments’ by Archdeacon Habib Guirgess.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:455 | date:2023-01-21T20:30:13 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Five #Pillar #Mysteries

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance page;  Today,  we hereby sent you the following basic religion lesson which we prepared in simple way of discription so that everybody can easily understand it; Hence, we entrust you to read and learn from it.

In Orthodoxy, the Five Pillars of Mysteries are called absolute dogmas. Apostle St. Paul explained that there are five pillars of truth and doctrine of salvation in the church. 1 Cor 14:19

The five pillar mysteries are: -

1. Mystery of Trinity: This is where we learn the unity and trinity of the Holy Trinity. Holy Trinity a special and unique form of Trinity and it means three in One, One in three. 

2. Mystery of Incarnation: This is where we learn the mystery of God becoming human. (God came down to us from the heavens and saved us, he became a man and was born from Mary, this mystery is the mystery of God becoming a man.)

3. Mystery of Baptism: This is where we learn about the baptism of our Lord Jesus Christ and the mystery of being reborn from God through baptism. Therefore, the sacrement of baptism in which we are born of water and the Spirit and receive the sonship of God is called the second birth. In Ephesians chapter four, it is written that baptism is one.

4. Mystery of Eucharistic: It is where we learn about the fact that the Holy Body of Jesus Christ and His Precious Blood are eternal life. Drink my blood and eat my flesh, our Lord Jesus Christ told us in his gospel that we must all receive the Holy Communion in order to have eternal life.

5. The Mystery of Resurrection (Eternal Life): This is where we learn about the second coming (the end of the world) and the resurrection of the dead. We believe in the resurrection of the dead, that when our Lord Jesus Christ comes, we will rise from the dead on the last day.

In the below paragraphs, we will take a closer look to briefly explain about  each of the Five Pillars Mysteries፦

1. Mystery of Trinity

The Mystery of Trinity is the first among the five pillars of mysteries at our Orthodox Church. Because it is the most fundamental of all Christian dogmas; and it is the basis for our salvation.  

It is impossible to comprehend the fundamental teachings of the Holy Bible in the absence of a clear understanding about the Mystery of Holy Trinity. This mystery is part and parcel of each and every spiritual life and service.

The word is derived from a Geez word and it means threeness. This concerns the unity and trinity of the living God. God is one God. In unity, His name is called Creator, Lord, God, etc. In trinity, the name is called the Holy Trinity.

(Part 2, to be continued)👇

--- id:456 | date:2023-01-21T20:33:02 ---
The Five Pillars Mysteries

1. Mystery of Trinity (Cont'd)

(Part 2 )

Trinity: - One in three, three in one.
We believe in one God. God is one in essence/nature, divinity, power, action, and will. We also believe in three Persons – the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. God is three in Person (Hypostasis), Name, and Deed.  

- The Trinity of names: Father, Son, Holy Spirit (Psalm 32:1, 1 John 5:7, Matthew 28, 19)  The Father is described as the Heart  . The Son is also called the Son of God, His ‘Word’, and 'God with us'. The Holy Spirit is called the ‘life’, or ‘breath’ of God, and God within us. But the three are one. As the Apostle Paul stated it clearly “There is no other God but one” (1 Corinthians 8:4).

- The trinity of Deed-: God the Father's deed is to give birth, parent (Ps 8:2), God the Son's deed is to be born; (from God the Father); Galatians 4:4;  God the Holy Spirit's deed is to move out/proceed (from God the Father) John 16:14 The Father  begets the Son; and gives forth the Holy Spirit. He is the unbegotten and never proceeds/comes out.  The Son's deed is to be born; begotten from God the father. He never begets, never gives forth the Holy Spirit, and never proceeds/comes out from the Father. The Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father. He never begets; is unbegotten,  The three  persons are co-equal, co-eternal and co-substantial.

- The trinity of the person: the Father has a perfect person, a perfect appearance, a perfect form; The Son has a perfect person, a perfect appearance, a perfect form; The Holy Spirit has a perfect person and a perfect appearance. They are three real, concrete and absolutely distinct persons.  Father, Son and Holy Spirit are three entirely distinct modes of existence. The three are not parts of the same person, nor three ways of manifestation to the world. They are undivided, inseparable, and Perfectly united, and God is their name of unity.  "Let us make man according to our likeness" Gen 1:26 "Adam became like one of us" Gen 3:22 is the expression of the physical God in addition to the mystery of the flesh. God is not a physical entity, but an abstract and spiritual entity.

So, trinity is Three in one and One in Three. This doesn't mean three persons who together make one God. Trinity is not three Gods joined together. Trinity is not three properties of God. Our forefathers have stated this as “The Father is God, the Son is God, the Holy Spirit is God. They are called one God but not three Gods.” (Apostolic Athanasius Faith of the Fathers Ch. 24 Part 4 Verse 4). 
Because, although we say the Trinity are three in name, in deed and in person; the three are one in essence, in divinity, in existence and in will; we do not mean three Gods but one God. While the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit exist in their own perfect person, they are one in existence ”  (Abulidis, Faith of the Fathers, Ch. 40 Verse 4:6). St Gregory stated it as “When I say God, I mean Father, Son and Holy Spirit.”  There is no confusion of names and deed in the Trinity. The Holy Trinity thinks with the heart of the Father and speaks with the words of the Son, and by the breath of the Holy Spirit they live. 
 
In the time of the apostles, the Lord said  " baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit." They were baptizing in the name of Jesus but it doesn't mean  they baptized them without calling the Father and the Holy Spirit. In the first Christian era, they did not even accept the teachings of Jesus Christ himself, let alone the preaching of the apostles. "He came to his own people, and his own people did not receive him. But to those who believed and accepted, he gave authority to become children of God. As John 1:9 says, "If they had known the Lord of glory, they would not have crucified him." As it is said, they crucified our Lord, but He rose again after conquering death.1. Mystery of Trinity

(Part 3 to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised today and always

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:460 | date:2023-01-22T20:30:18 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Five #Pillar Mysteries

1. Mystery of Trinity (Cont'd)

(Part 2 )

Trinity: - One in three, three in one.
We believe in one God. God is one in essence/nature, divinity, power, action, and will. We also believe in three Persons – the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. God is three in Person (Hypostasis), Name, and Deed.  

- The Trinity of names: Father, Son, Holy Spirit (Psalm 32:1, 1 John 5:7, Matthew 28, 19)  The Father is described as the Heart  . The Son is also called the Son of God, His ‘Word’, and 'God with us'. The Holy Spirit is called the ‘life’, or ‘breath’ of God, and God within us. But the three are one. As the Apostle Paul stated it clearly “There is no other God but one” (1 Corinthians 8:4).

- The trinity of Deed-: God the Father's deed is to give birth, parent (Ps 8:2), God the Son's deed is to be born; (from God the Father); Galatians 4:4;  God the Holy Spirit's deed is to move out/proceed (from God the Father) John 16:14 The Father  begets the Son; and gives forth the Holy Spirit. He is the unbegotten and never proceeds/comes out.  The Son's deed is to be born; begotten from God the father. He never begets, never gives forth the Holy Spirit, and never proceeds/comes out from the Father. The Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father. He never begets; is unbegotten,  The three  persons are co-equal, co-eternal and co-substantial.

- The trinity of the person: the Father has a perfect person, a perfect appearance, a perfect form; The Son has a perfect person, a perfect appearance, a perfect form; The Holy Spirit has a perfect person and a perfect appearance. They are three real, concrete and absolutely distinct persons.  Father, Son and Holy Spirit are three entirely distinct modes of existence. The three are not parts of the same person, nor three ways of manifestation to the world. They are undivided, inseparable, and Perfectly united, and God is their name of unity.  "Let us make man according to our likeness" Gen 1:26 "Adam became like one of us" Gen 3:22 is the expression of the physical God in addition to the mystery of the flesh. God is not a physical entity, but an abstract and spiritual entity.

So, trinity is Three in one and One in Three. This doesn't mean three persons who together make one God. Trinity is not three Gods joined together. Trinity is not three properties of God. Our forefathers have stated this as “The Father is God, the Son is God, the Holy Spirit is God. They are called one God but not three Gods.” (Apostolic Athanasius Faith of the Fathers Ch. 24 Part 4 Verse 4). 
Because, although we say the Trinity are three in name, in deed and in person; the three are one in essence, in divinity, in existence and in will; we do not mean three Gods but one God. While the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit exist in their own perfect person, they are one in existence ”  (Abulidis, Faith of the Fathers, Ch. 40 Verse 4:6). St Gregory stated it as “When I say God, I mean Father, Son and Holy Spirit.”  There is no confusion of names and deed in the Trinity. The Holy Trinity thinks with the heart of the Father and speaks with the words of the Son, and by the breath of the Holy Spirit they live. 
 
In the time of the apostles, the Lord said  " baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit." They were baptizing in the name of Jesus but it doesn't mean  they baptized them without calling the Father and the Holy Spirit. In the first Christian era, they did not even accept the teachings of Jesus Christ himself, let alone the preaching of the apostles. "He came to his own people, and his own people did not receive him. But to those who believed and accepted, he gave authority to become children of God. As John 1:9 says, "If they had known the Lord of glory, they would not have crucified him." As it is said, they crucified our Lord, but He rose again after conquering death.1. Mystery of Trinity

(Continued 👇)

--- id:461 | date:2023-01-22T20:33:02 ---
The Five Pillars Mysteries

1. Mystery of Trinity (Cont'd)

(Part 4 )


- “Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.” Matt. 28:19 The verse indicates God is three persons – Father, Son and Holy Spirit. The singular description ‘name’ shows God is one Person.

- The Father testifies from heaven, This is my beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased; hear Him (Matt. 17:5), while as before the Spirit descends upon the Son, this time in the form of a cloud of light (Luke 9:34). This is also another major event where God revealed Himself to the three Apostles, Moses and Elijah. 

- Apostle Paul mentioned the three persons of God as “The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.” 2 Cor. 13:14

- “But when the Comforter comes, whom I shall send to you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness to me” John 15:26-27. Here He revealed not only the three persons of God but also the fact that the Holy Spirit Proceeds from the Father (and not from the Son). 

- John the Evangelist has stated in the most clear-cut way of  description about Trinity as “For there are three that bear witness in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one.” 1 John 5:7 


2. Mystery of Incarnation:  

(Part 5, to be continued)👇

--- id:462 | date:2023-01-22T20:34:25 ---
The Five Pillars Mysteries

1. Mystery of Trinity (Cont'd)

(Part 4 )


- “Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.” Matt. 28:19 The verse indicates God is three persons – Father, Son and Holy Spirit. The singular description ‘name’ shows God is one Person.

- The Father testifies from heaven, This is my beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased; hear Him (Matt. 17:5), while as before the Spirit descends upon the Son, this time in the form of a cloud of light (Luke 9:34). This is also another major event where God revealed Himself to the three Apostles, Moses and Elijah. 

- Apostle Paul mentioned the three persons of God as “The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.” 2 Cor. 13:14

- “But when the Comforter comes, whom I shall send to you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will bear witness to me” John 15:26-27. Here He revealed not only the three persons of God but also the fact that the Holy Spirit Proceeds from the Father (and not from the Son). 

- John the Evangelist has stated in the most clear-cut way of  description about Trinity as “For there are three that bear witness in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one.” 1 John 5:7 


2. Mystery of Incarnation:  

(Part 5, to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised today and always

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:467 | date:2023-01-23T20:30:28 ---
👉🏾 About the #sacrement of #Eucharist and #Baptism

👉Question: Someone asked the question can the Holy Body be given without the precious blood? Must Holy Communion happen after Holy Baptism?
 
✍️Answer #1: The first question is can the Holy Body be given without the precious blood? Our questioner; First of all, we must understand that we are commanded to receive His Holy Body and His Precious Blood. Our Lord our God Jesus Christ, crucified on the cross, broke his holy body, shed his precious blood, he told us that whoever ate my body and drank my blood has eternal life. He told us that this is my flesh and blood that will be shed for the welfare of the world. Therefore, the creator spoke about both his holy body and his precious blood.

Therefore, we cannot say that if the flesh is present, the blood is not needed, because that is not the teaching we have received from our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We do it God's way. Eat my flesh, we will eat his flesh; Drink my blood, we will drink his blood. We do what we are exactly told to do. When we look at John 6:55-56, "For my flesh is true food and my blood is true drink. He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, abideth in me, and I in him." He said. He did not say, "He who eats my flesh will live in me, and I will live in him." He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood means that we are commanded to take both. 
 
Therefore, we are commanded to receive his holy body and his precious blood. We are invited, given and commanded by God to have the flesh as food for the soul and the blood as drink for the soul. Therefore, it means that we receive his holy body and his precious blood. This command is God's, so when we accept it and carry it out, the benefit is for ourselves. 

Answer #2: To your second question, must Holy Communion happen after Holy Baptism, the answer is Yes. Our Lord Jesus Christ ordered his disciples: “Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.” (Mathew 28:19)  Baptism means immersion in a blessed water (in the name of the Holy Trinity). Baptism is the gate/door/Point of entry to Christianity. One cannot be a Christian without baptism. It’s the first sacrament to be performed for all Christians.

So, children, boys at 40 days and girls at 80 days, are baptized for the first time when they are baptized and after that they are sealed/confirmed/anointed with holy myron. The priest says, I anoint you in the name of the Father, I anoint you in the name of the Son, I anoint you in the name of the Holy Spirit, he anoints all the body parts and seals them with holy myron. Then they will be given a baptism name. After that, the person who brought the children to Christianity should take them to the church, and they will celebrate the day's Mass and receive Holy Communion.

So this is the baptism of childhood that we get once. But it does not mean that we are baptized regularly when we receive the holy flesh and the precious blood. Baptism is required for the first time. Only a baptized person can receive the holy flesh and the precious blood. Apart from that, an unbaptized person, an unbeliever will not be given his holy body and precious blood. Believing for the first time is mandatory to be baptized to receive His Holy Body and Precious Blood. Once we believe and are baptized, since infant baptism is once, we are not born again and again after being born once of the Trinity. It means that we are once born and baptized, and those who have fallen into sin, we rise in repentance and continue to receive His Holy Body and His Precious Blood. But for the first time, the foundation is baptism. The Church does not provide his holy body and precious blood to unbaptized people.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:468 | date:2023-01-23T20:33:01 ---
(continued part)👇👆

Therefore, baptism of rebirth, is from Water & Spirit; and this childhood baptism is the door and the entrance to all mysteries, and it is mandatory. For those who are baptized, they need to receive the Holy Body and the Precious Blood; It means that they will receive Holy Communion for the first time on that same day. After that, they receive it every time throughout their life. There is no age limit to receive his holy body and precious blood. Because from the time when a boy became a child of God at forty days, and a girl at 80 days, they confirmed their childhood through secret baptism and sacramental communion. Therefore, from that moment on, any child of God must not stop receiving Christ's holy body and precious blood in order to live as a man before Him or to continue being a child of God. This is a never ending system.

There are sacrements that are repeated and not repeated; Childhood baptism is never repeated. Of course, there are many types of baptism. There is the baptism of repentance, baptism of Keder, baptism of healing and these types of baptism are repeated; But the childhood baptism, which we have been explaining above, is only one and will never be repeated. A person is born from his mother and father once. Also, because we are born from the Trinity only once; so in the case of rebirth baptism, if we are baptized in infant baptism once and receive the sonship of the Trinity (baptism of rebirth, is from Water & Spirit) it is not repeatable. We must remember that the Mystery of Baptism (baptism of rebirth) is referred as the gate to Christianity and that it is one (Ephesus 4:4-5). It can’t be repeated. As we are born from our parents only once, we get born from Holy spirit and water (through baptism) only once.  “He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned.” Mark 16:16 “Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.”  

There are Mysteries to be repeated and not to be repeated. Mystery of Repentance and Mystry of eucharist are releated.  So, we repent before we receive Holy Communion. It is impossible to receive his holy body and precious blood without being baptized upon childhood baptism from the Water and Spirt. So, there are also other sacrements, like the sacrement of confirmation, of pennance, of Holy Orders (ordination), of Matrimony, and of unction of the sick (anointing the sick). But for all these mysteries, the door is the mystery of baptism. That is why the Mystery of Baptism is referred as the gate to Christianity.  

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:472 | date:2023-01-24T20:30:21 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Five #Pillar #Mysteries

2. Mystery of Incarnation

(Part 5)

The next major pillar, among the 5 pillar mysteries is called  'Mystery of Incarnation'. Mystery of Incarnation  basically defines the religious and spiritual identity of Orthodox Christianity. Through incarnation, mysteries of the kingdom of God were revealed to human beings. It’s on the basis of this mystery that our apostolic orthodox church got the prefix in its name “Tewahedo”. Tewahedo is a Geez word which represents the inseparable unity between Divinity and humanity in the person of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

This is a teaching about the revelation of God to human beings. This is the Word, one part of the Holy Trinity who never man. “No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.” (John 1:18) His coming is basically to save the world, to reveal his love, a religion where we declare that he is a perfect man. It reveals the reality of redemption of Adam's sin, about how God became Man. He loved mankind and was born of the Holy Virgin Mary to save mankind whose grace was rejected and was about to be crushed by the feet of demons. The other reason He chose to become Human is to reveal his love to mankind. He loved man to the extent of being crucified on the cross.  (Hos 14:4 John 3:16 1John 4:19 Romans 5:8 Ephe 2:4). "When the end of the age came, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman, born under the law." As Galatians 4:4 says. The other  reason of His being human is to become an ultimate role model for human beings, (Gen 3:12 4:8 13:13 Ps 61:4 Matt 11:29 2Peter 2:21)., God taught us everything we need to do to become his children.  

We believe that God the Son (Jesus Christ) has two births.  In the pre world, God the Son, has been begotten from God the Father without a mother. In the latter days, through incarnation, He was born from the Holy Virgin Mary with Virginal conception and without a human fatherhood. Then after, the incarnated God the Son, was named Jesus (savior), Christ (the anointed one or Messiah.), Emmanuel (God is with us) and there are other names too, among them Orthodox Christians usually call Him 'Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ' (Medicine of the world). (Galatians 4:4 Isa 7:14 Gen 3:15 18:13 12:8 Ps 107:20).
 
In the mystery of the flesh, the divinity, which is invisible in its nature, was manifested by the incarnation of the flesh. The intangible was grasped, beaten, the immortal died in the flesh, the unhungry hungered and thirsted, the draft smote. The flesh was made alive by the divinity, the flesh to which the ages are counted, and the divinity to whom the ages are not counted (was before all ages), was called the first. Adam became one of us.” According to Genesis 3:22, the first deity was reckoned at the time of his incarnation, the son of God the Father became the son of the Virgin Mary. The Son of a Virgin was called the Son of God the Father.  

Based on Orthodox Tewahdo teaching, incarnation is from two Persons to one Person; and from two natures to one united nature. It means Divine Person and Human united in to one hypostasis, Jesus Christ – He is both perfectly Divine and perfectly Human. Likewise, from two natures to one nature means Divine nature and Human nature perfectly united into one united nature. We believe that this incarnation is without alteration/change, without reversion, without mingling/mixing, without dwelling, without superimposing, without separation, and without detachment.

(Part 6, continues )👇

--- id:473 | date:2023-01-24T20:33:01 ---
The Five Pillars Mysteries

1. Mystery of Incarnation (Cont'd)

(Part 6 )

The incarnated Lord Jesus Christ is truly God. As He truly is God, He rebuked the sea (Matt 8:23), created eyes (John 9:6) and entered through closed doors (John 20:26). These are possible only for a supernatural power. Moreover, many verses about Jesus’ birth confirm that He truly is God (Luke 2:11 Matt 2:11 Isai 9:6). The incarnated Lord Jesus Christ is also a Human being. He was sleeping (Matt 8:23). He spat on the ground (John 9:6). He ate after resurrection (Luke 24:42). All these confirm that He is also a human being. In short, He is God and human; yet Christ is not two, but one. He is one, however, not by his divinity being turned into flesh, but by God’s taking humanity to himself. He is one, certainly not by the blending of his essence, but by the unity of his person. For just as one human is both rational soul and flesh, so too the one Christ is both God and human. St. Cyril revealed the mystery of Christ's being a man as the mystery of salvation, and said, "Before being a man, Christ is God; And when he is a man, he is God. (Religious Father - St. Cyril. Chapter 79, Section 48, Verse 9-18)

St John the Evangelist clearly stated the Divinity of Jesus Christ as “He is the true God and eternal life” (1 John 5:20). After resurrection of Jesus Christ, Thomas answered and said unto Him, “My Lord and my God!” (John 20:28). All the disciples taught about the Divinity of Jesus Christ. In more definitive terms Jesus Christ Himself said “I Am Alpha And Omega, The Beginning And The Ending,”(Rev 1:8) and “‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’ (Matt 22:31).

Conclusion - We believe that incarnation is from two natures to one; from two persons to one. Our church, Orthodox Tewahdo Religion, teaches the notion that Christ is both Divine and human, but in one united nature. Our belief is that the Eternal Son of God became Man taking soul and body from St Mary. Our mystery of incarnation is miaphysitism. On the basis of the truth taught by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and revealed by the Holy Spirit to the disciples, we believe that in the person of Jesus Christ, divine nature and human nature are perfectly united, the two being united without separation, without mixture, without confusion and without alteration. This is the doctrine of Oriental Churches – the mystery of Incarnation!

 3. Mystry of Baptism 

(Part 7, to be continued )

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:474 | date:2023-01-25T21:10:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Five #Pillar #Mysteries

(Part 7)

The Mystery of Baptism
The mystery of baptism is one of the five pillars of mysteries in the Orthodox Tewahdo church. Baptism means immersion in blessed water (in the name of the Holy Trinity). Adam and Eve, by their choice, became slaves to the devil's will. The Lord appeared to save us, and at the age of 30, he was baptized in the Jordan Sea by the hands of John.

The Lord is naturally compassionate, and He wasn't baptized because He needed it. He washed away our sins by being baptized, but not for the sake of adding glory to himself. He had nothing to lack or add to himself because he was baptized or not. He prophesied that he would baptize. Because he pretended to be an example, he was baptized by the hand of John in the Jordan Sea and became an example for us. And so do we. “And now why are you waiting? Arise and be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord." According to the instructions of Acts 22:16, we are baptized in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

The mystery of baptism is established by our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. He established it in three ways: by performance, preaching, and giving commission to the church. He established baptism by being our role model and getting baptized by John the Baptist in the Jordan River. (Matthew 3) He cemented the place of baptism in Christian life by establishing baptism through His preaching, as he said, “He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned.” Mark 16:16 says, “Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.” John 3:3-6. He also commissioned the Church to perform baptism as He ordered his disciples: “Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.” Matt 28:19

So, for all who believe in the mystery of the Trinity and the mystery of our incarnation, baptism is our power to erase sin, to receive childhood, and to inherit the kingdom of heaven. "He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who does not believe will be condemned." Mar. 16:16. Baptism is the gate, door, or point of entry to Christianity. One cannot be a Christian without baptism. It’s the first sacrament to be performed for all Christians.

We also believe in baptism for the remission of sins. St. Peter told the people to repent and be baptized: “Repent, and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins.” Acts 2:38. This is a type of baptism for the remission of sins; there is another type of baptism in which we are baptized on a regular basis for blessing and healing from sickness; the other is sprinkling with holy water to be blessed in holy water during Epiphany to celebrate Jesus' baptism every year; all of these types of baptisms are reputable. But baptism of rebirth, to which we refer in this topic, is the most important of all these types of regular baptism; baptism of rebirth is a necessity for salvation. It’s not just a mere ceremony. It is the type of baptism that is at the heart of church teachings on the Mystery of Baptism.

(Part 8, to be continued) 👇

--- id:475 | date:2023-01-25T21:12:02 ---
The Five Pillars Mysteries

(Part 8)

3. The Mystery of Baptism (Continued Part)

The water and spirit baptism of rebirth is what Jesus taught Nicodemus. St. Peter the Apostle also described this as “..having been born again, not of corruptible seed but of incorruptible seed, through the word of God, which lives and abides forever...” 1 Peter 1:23. Also, the Bible clearly states that “he who believes and is baptized will be saved.” Mark 16:16. It is also required to enter God's kingdom. Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ stated this clearly: “Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.” John 3:5. There is only one baptism of rebirth (Ephesians 4:4–5). It can’t be repeated. As we are only born once from our parents, we are only born once from the Holy Spirit and water (via baptism).

Our Lord's baptism fulfills the law and saves all mankind. According to Luke 16:17, the Lord was baptized, saying, "We must fulfill all the law." (Matthew 3:1) The Orthodox Tewahedo Church, which is the Church of Christ, baptizes all those who believe in the divinity of Christ in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Church teaches that baptism is the gateway to all the mysteries and the basis for salvation and forgiveness of sins.

According to the apostolic teaching of Galatians 3:27, "For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ," the church always teaches all its children to put on Christ and to grow in wisdom and understanding. Because there is only one Lord, one religion, and one baptism, the church baptizes us as children when males are 40 days old and females 80 days old. Those older than the recommended age for baptism can be baptized after they learn and believe in the dogmas of the church. However, if an infant is sick or misses the 40 or 80 day mark due to different reasons, they should be baptized before or after the 40 or 80 day mark. However, these are exceptional cases.

For those who ask, is infant baptism for rebirth or remission of original sin? It is for rebirth. But there are differing views on this depending on one's conceptualization of original sin. Some say it’s for both remission of the original sin and rebirth. Others say it’s to "heal" the consequences of original sin and ensure their salvation through rebirth. The upshot is that original sin is avoided by Jesus, and infant baptism is for rebirth from water and the Holy Spirit only. Overall, infants should be baptized for re-birth in water and the Holy Spirit to ensure their salvation. For those who died after at 40/80 days, the parents will be accountable. Unbaptized infants who died before 40/80 days, they are free as they are not responsible for any sin. Ezk 18:20

There is only one baptism; there is no re-baptism. Just as we are born only once from our parents, we are born only once from water and the Holy Spirit. If someone was already baptized in our church but denounced it and went to another religion, he or she won’t be re-baptized if he or she decides to return. Instead, a baptism of repentance will be conducted. Unless coming from other oriental churches, anyone coming from other denominations shall be re-baptized as his or her previous baptism is not considered valid.

Yes, we believe in and confess baptism for the remission of sins.

The baptism of rebirth, in general, is one; it cannot be reputed, and it is the gateway, door, or point of entry into Christianity, as well as the foundation for salvation and sin forgiveness; one cannot be a Christian without baptism.It’s the first sacrament to be performed for all Christians. Through baptism, we become children of God and members of the apostolic Church of God. All other sacraments are performed only for those who are baptized. That is why the mystery of baptism is referred to as the gate to Christianity.

4. Mystry of Holy Eucharist 

(Part 9, to be continued)

--- id:476 | date:2023-01-25T21:13:01 ---
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:477 | date:2023-01-26T20:30:26 ---


--- id:478 | date:2023-01-26T20:30:26 ---


--- id:479 | date:2023-01-26T20:30:26 ---


--- id:480 | date:2023-01-26T20:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Five #Pillar #Mysteries

(Part 9)

4. Mystery of Eucharist

Holy Eucharist, also called Holy Communion, is the fourth mystery, which is God's gift of life to the world. The mystery of the Holy Communion tells us the secret of the flesh and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, who was crucified on the cross at Calvary Square, to be life for the whole world.

"And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." Matthew 26:28

According to this divine instruction, it is a mystery where we can approach God, eat the lamb that was sacrificed for the atonement of sins, and live with God. For we are told, "Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood, I will live in him and he will live in me." The foundation of this holy order is Jesus Christ. This holy mystery is the conclusion and seal of our worship, the center of our Christianity. By accepting the separated soul, the divinely united holy body and the noble blood, we are called the children of the heavenly citizens. The flesh and blood of the Son of God, which we receive while testifying to Christ's death and resurrection, is holiness for our souls. Heb 10:10.

As our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ taught us in the John’s Gospel 6:56, the Holy Eucharist is a real testament of the Lord’s presence in the life of the Christian person. Hence, by receiving the Holy Body and Precious Blood of Jesus Christ, that Christian person ensures the sanctity of any other sacrament that he/she has partaken from. 

This mystery is not an example or a memory, but a real one. Even today, the blood of Abel speaks, because the blood of Christ is alive and faithful, and frees us from all sin. 1 John 1:7 "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body." Matthew 26:26

According to the teachings of the Church, anyone who believes and is baptized can receive his holy body and precious blood. Just as the people of Israel ate manna and inherited the promise land, all Christians eat the holy flesh, drink the precious blood and inherit the freedom and the promised land of the kingdom of heaven.

Saint Peter said, "For you have become partakers of the glory of God." Saint Paul taught us, "Let every man examine himself and purify himself, eat of this bread, and drink of this cup." Therefore, we attend church in prayer (Mass) and unite our God with love. 1st Cor 11:28

It is called a mystery is because it cannot be seen by the physical eye. It is called a mystery because it gives an invisible grace through a visible service. We believe that the bread and wine are changed and become the Body and the Blood of Christ. We believe in this definitive/absolute change, but we don’t attempt to explain the mode of the change (“Mystery”). The change is to Body, Blood and Divine (but without Soul). The mechanism of that change is beyond human imagination and we describe it as a Mystery. We believe the Holy Eucharist is the body and blood of Christ with divinity, but without soul.

(Part 10 continues)👇

--- id:481 | date:2023-01-26T20:33:02 ---
The Five Pillars Mysteries

(Part 10)

4. Mystery of Eucharist (Cont'd part)

As our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ said, "I am the bread that came down from heaven, and whoever eats of this bread will live forever." Joh: 6:51) As written in the same gospel chapter (1:14) "The word became flesh" when the Word became flesh, the deity called "the Word" came down from heaven and united with our Lady Virgin Mary, flesh from her body, soul from her soul; But when he says, 'the bread of life that came down from heaven'  he does not mean that he brought the flesh from heaven. The Mystery of Holy Eucharist is the most prominent grace of the Lord to Christians in the New Testament. It is the mystery that proves that God is with us as His beloved Son, Jesus Christ is named Emmanuel.

It must be noted that the Mystery of Holy Eucharist is meant for the sick (sinners) as Jesus came for us sinners. But we must repent our obvious sins to a priest and most importantly be remorseful so that God will forgive us. Partaking from the Holy Eucharist is a testament of our repentance. However, there are a number of practical challenges for the youth in the process of repentance particularly where there are linguistic and cultural barriers inhibiting constructive engagement with their father confessors. That’s a challenge the church has to acknowledge and try to resolve. However, despite the challenges, abstaining from the mystery is not the solution. As the youth grow to adulthood, they need more food and energy. So do they need the ultimate food for their soul: the body of Christ through the Mystery of Holy Eucharist.

The ultimate goal of participating in the mystery of Holy Eucharist is eternal life in the Kingdom of God. Based on the teachings of Holy forefathers, the main benefits of Holy Eucharist can be summarized under the following five areas: 1) Abiding in Lord Jesus Christ. John 6:56 Eph 5:30 2 Peter 1:4; 2) Growth & Maintenance of Our Spiritual Life. John 6:55,57; 3) Salvation & Remission of Sins. Mt 26:28 2 Corinthians 7:1; 4) Unification of Believers. 1 Cor 10:17; and 5) Obtaining Eternal Life. John 6:54,58. By partaking from the Holy Eucharist, we can maintain our individual spiritual growth. Whenever we partake from the Holy Eucharist, we remember the healing sufferings of the Lord, which will guard us away from temptations to commit sins. As the mystery of Holy Eucharist is a communal ritual, it manifests the spiritual unification of believers in the most fascinating and literal sense by eating and drinking from the same source.

5 Mystery of Resurrection of (from) the dead. 

(to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:482 | date:2023-01-27T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Humility

The Link Between Repentance and Humility

In an age when "self-focus" is the rule of the day, and where the ego seems to reign, it is hard for people to see the value of humility. Many people, from politicians to rock stars, seem to climb the ladder of success by being anything but humble. In our darkened state, with sin dominating our lives, and bad habits seemingly insurmountable, holiness seems to be about saints, but unattainable for ourselves. Stuck in our habitual patterns of behavior, we seem to have surrendered all hope for real change.

The antidote to this inertia can be found in one simple act, that of repenting. We fall down before our God, confessing our failure at having kept the commandments, and asking for God's help in turning our lives around. We commit ourselves to crushing down the ego, and acquiring a humble heart. We take every opportunity to accept correction or criticism, without becoming defensive, for we know the truth in the words of Saint John Climacus, "As with the appearance of light, darkness retreats; so, at the fragrance of humility, all anger and bitterness vanishes."

We refrain from judging anyone, but only examine our own conscience, accusing only ourselves. Saint Macarius the Great wrote, “Christians therefore ought to strive continually, and never to pass judgment on anyone—no, not upon the harlot on the street, or upon open sinners and disorderly persons—but to regard all men with singleness of intention and purity of eye, so that it may become like a fixed law of nature to despise no one, to abhor no one, to make no distinctions between them….This is purity of heart, when you see  sinners or sick people, to have compassion on them and be tenderhearted towards them.”

Source: Abbot Tryphon from the Russian Orthodox Church

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:484 | date:2023-01-28T20:30:57 ---
👉🏾 About #death, #sin and #repentance 

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page, we encourage you to ask questions on this page. The following is a question that was sent to us privately, which you can do on Telegram by sending a message to the admin 'ዮሐንስ ንስሐ' or by sending us an email at yohannes.neseha@gmail.com. Since we all face similar struggles in life, we can all learn from one another. Hence we entrust you all to read and learn from the answers we give. 

👉 Question – If a person who has committed a sin dies suddenly without repenting, can he enter heaven or not?

Answer – "I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turn from his way and live" says God (Ez 33:11). Suppose a person has lived a righteous and Christian life by continuously repenting, for example. In that case, even if they die with a sin they forgot to confess or repent for, they can still receive the prayer of absolution at the time of their burial, which enables their souls to be with God. But for those that have lived a sinful life, a life without repentance, they should not receive the prayer of absolution upon their death. That said even after our death, Saints and Angels pray for us so we can enter the kingdom of God. This is one of the reasons why it is crucial to pray for the intercession of Angeles and Saints, especially to the Virgin Mary, as she is the mother of God.

Advise፦ it is important to understand that our life here on earth is very short. We do not know when our time will come. Which is why it being essential to always be prepared by repenting every time we sin. God is givining us one extra day, multiple times, as a chance for us to return to Him. We need to use our time wisely by worshiping God, abiding by His commandments, lerning His words, having a pure heart helping to poor and so on. 

Continued 👇

--- id:485 | date:2023-01-28T20:36:36 ---
👉🏾 Question: Where do thoughts of sin come from? Do all our thoughts come from our own mind or from somewhere else? How do we know the difference between inside and outside? How can we stop?

Answer: Sin and death are not created by God, but are events that happened later in the life of mankind. Therefore, God did not create sin in Adam's character. Sin is rather the result of an evil though that is contrary to the good laws cealed in his conscience. A person becomes cunning and sinful not because it is given to him by his nature, but because he loves sin by his own free will. Of course, Satan is also the enemy of mankind, so he sees our small weak side and expands it. Therefore, using our free will, we can obey God's law and live righteously. But if we choose to live in Satan's thoughts, we will bring destruction and death to ourselves and others by our own hands. Intellectual (knowledge) is a spiritual gift and wealth that protects the soul, guides and corrects it, and keeps it away from sin and clings to what is good; By this we can distinguish between good and evil. As humans, we have the ability to save ourselves, and this ability is done voluntarily. God foresaw our weakness and made laws for us to live. After people understand God's law, his love and his judgement, the choice is in their hands, so they can think and go for what they want. If they do evil, they will perish, but if they do good, they will be justified. Since we are given the mind to distinguish between good and bad thoughts, it is possible to distinguish whether it is an internal thought that is a characteristic of the soul or an evil thought that comes from someone else. The law is one of the ways in which the divine protection is manifested, and it is shown that the result of God's protection and blessing is with us when we obey God's commands and exercise our free will. This is the will of the soul, which is called the will of the character, and the will of the soul is to live in righteousness, holiness, thanksgiving, and spirituality. In addition, we have the natural ability to prevent the sin of thought from coming, even if it does come, it will not be considered a sin. Therefore, we can use our free will to avoid evil thoughts.

Continued 👇

--- id:486 | date:2023-01-28T20:55:56 ---
Continued 👆

Detailed explanation

Creation and event are two completely different subjects and concepts. Creation is created by God from Sunday to Friday in the period of creation, and an event can be a situation or process that describes the change (new thing) observed in the body of creation. God's creations are called creatures, and a change in the creation is called an event. Therefore, sin and death are not creatures created by God, but events that occurred later in the life of humanity. Therefore, sin is not the nature that God created in Adam's character. Instead, sin is the result of an evil action that is contrary to the good laws given to man by his God written in a book, and carved by his conscience.

Some wrongly believe that if God did not create sin, then it must be the creation of the devil and give the devil the honor of being the creator. The truth is that the devil does not have the ability and capacity to create evil or good things, but to destroy what has been created. The devil originated sin in his nature, he did not create it. However, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ said that it is the "father of lies". (John 8:44)

The devil and his army sinned by their own free will and put their righteousness aside. This was not imposed on them by another body. Death is not the nature of man, but it suits his nature. Likewise, sin is not a natural characteristic of the devil or human beings, but because it suits their nature, they have become sinners. All creation is given a thinking mind to think. It is impossible to think with our mind and not to know. Satan was an angel by nature, but by his own pride he was called Satan. A man is cunning not because he is naturally cunning, but because he likes trickery of his own free will. So it is our own free will and choice that destroyed us. God did not create any sin. But we ourselves have loved evil and committed sin. The will of the character is the will of the soul, and the will of the soul is to live in righteousness, holiness, thanksgiving, and spirituality.

Therefore, sin is the fault of humans and angels, not God's responsibility, nor is there any reason connected with their nature, so they are responsible only for themselves. The human being, endowed with understanding and wisdom, whose grace resembles God, who is created free of will, and who has power over himself, is the cause of evil and evil for each of his own lives. Man, using his free will, sometimes becomes righteous and sometimes sinful. As the Prophet said, "The human race was glorious, but they became like animals without a heart." Mankind's main adversary is the devil, but not all of our downfalls are attributable to Satan. Even if there is no such thing as Satan, as long as human beings do not use their free will properly, it is bound to stumble (fall). In fact, the scriptures tell us about the fierce struggle of the devil by saying, "Your partner the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour." Even so, he has no power unless he gets free consent from us.
The wise Solomon said, "Do not court death by the error of your life or bring on destruction by the works of your hands, because God did not make death, and he does not." (Wisdom 1:12). He said that because we live in wrong thoughts and by our own will, we bring destruction and death with our own hands. Humans have the ability to save themselves. This ability is voluntary and supported by behavior. The apostle St. Paul said, "Every man deserves to be commanded." 2 Pet 2:19 We can be slaves to those whom we love and to whom we obey. In his message, the apostle Saint James said, "Each one is tempted when he is drawn and deceived by his own desire, and if desire is conceived, it gives birth to sin, and if sin is conceived, it gives birth to death" (James 4:14-15). May God cut off the cord of sin that we are willingly drawn into.

Continued 👇

--- id:487 | date:2023-01-28T20:58:27 ---
Continued 👇

Considering that the idea of the questions is similar, it is possible to answer them in one paragraph, but we believe that it is better to give short answers with explanations while keeping the order of the questions separately in a convenient way to gain basic knowledge. Therefore, we will send you the answers to the questions in a lesson manner, so we entrust you to follow and read them till the end.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:490 | date:2023-01-29T20:30:15 ---
👉🏾 About #control of #mind and #throughts 

How to stop recurring bad thoughts in the mind permanently?

👉Question: I know that when bad thoughts come to our mind, we can choose not to accept them and not think about them, but is it possible to control our thoughts so that we don't have disturbing or bad thoughts that come to our mind in the first place? How can we permanently stop the bad thoughts that are repeatedly formed in our mind?

✍Answer:- The main reason for us to commit sin, either internally generated from ourselves or under the pressure of external forces, is the absence of righteousness or the deficiency of our inner spirituality. External sources of sin are trained against us when our intimate relationship with our God begins to falter.

Saint Paul, the light of the world, the teacher of the Gentiles, in his message to Ephesus, "Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace; Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God: Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints; And for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel," he told us (Ephesians 6:11-19)

Therefore, if we listen to God's word and obey God's commands by living in religion and morals, we can control our emotions, coordinate our minds with our free will, and destroy evil thoughts immediately. The one who has received the title 'heart of God', Saint David, in his psalms says, "You will be righteous with the righteous, you will be pure with the pure, you will be upright with the upright, and you will be crooked with the crooked" (Ps 17:25-27).

What makes man human and separates him from animals is not only his knowledge but also his free will. In other words, our soul has the freedom to be whatever it wants. In general, if freedom, reason, truth, knowledge and good will (choice) are properly integrated, our life can continue spiritually as our God wants. If we do this, our interests will be good. If we do not do this, we will easily fall into the trap of sin. The damage a sinner suffers from his sin is worse than the person on whom he committed the sin or the evil counselor who encouraged him to commit the sin.

Therefore, when we are still thinking about sin, we should return to the good free will as soon as possible, thinking about its final result and the damage it will cause. What helps us for this is to hate and abhor sin from its root, and when we oppose it, it should be with emotion, will, knowledge, and with all our strength. This is possible by thinking of the words, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength." If this is the case, because the hatred will be faithful and perfect, then it will be difficult for us to even think about sin, and the thought will not come easily to us. Even if we think about it, the good spirit within us opposes it. Therefore, righteousness and sin can be seen and live together, fighting until one is built up and the other is completely defeated. But sin and righteousness do not continue to live together. In addition, if we regularly wash away sin with repentance, and practice planting good things in our minds little by little, the thought of sin will be replaced by righteousness.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:491 | date:2023-01-29T20:33:02 ---
(continued part)👇

On the other hand, if we don't get rid of sin while it is still in thought, it will deprive us of the spiritual graces given to mankind, that is knowledge, holiness, humanity, fear of God, and goodness. Therefore, we should be firm in our religion and conduct so that we are not trained in the thought of sin, and above all, keep humility and love, live steadfastly in fasting, prayer, prostration, and not giving up hope. In general, it is possible to live like a righteous person if we live by doing God's law and resisting the devil, that is, if we remove grudge, anger, ignorance, envy, and gossip from our hearts.

As the apostle Saint Paul told us, "Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for we are not ignorant of his devices."
2 Cor 2:11. Therefore, in addition to the ways of preventing the idea of sin that we have seen above, it is appropriate to know the characteristics of the devil in order to know how we can deal with sin from the beginning by distinguishing the ideas of each devil and his tools. Among the evil works that the devil uses to separate mankind from God, the main ones are:

- Infidelity
- Arrogance
- Greedy
- Materialism
- Jealousy
- Ignorance
- Adultery
- Sexuality
- Evil
- Drunkenness
- Murderer
- Idolatry
- Racism
- Discrimination
- Heresy
- Immortality
- Seduction
- Anger
- Strike
- Enmity and dispute
- Singing

God strongly hates these listed above. They are the tares that the devil sows instead of the pure wheat to separate mankind from God. In one way or another, if we know that these are the manifestations of the devil's behavior that tempt human beings with their flesh and soul, then we should avoid and separate from all these acts of destruction. Our hatred and abhorrence of sin is known not only when we stop doing, but also when we stop thinking. So even if these ideas listed above come and fight in your mind, it is possible to multiply spirituality by gradually sowing their opposite virtues instead. For sin and righteousness do not go together; On Ephesians 6:11-19 , St. Paul told us, 'Put on the armor of God, that you may be able to resist the wiles of the devil.' By doing this, we will defeat the devil through a steadfast and unceasing spiritual struggle, and the idea of sin will be replaced by the idea of righteousness. Therefore, we entrust you to understand the answer to the question that you have presented, and implement our advice.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:493 | date:2023-01-30T20:30:27 ---
👉🏾 About #thoughts, #sin, and #confession 

When does a thought become a sin? Which thoughts should we confess and should we confess all bad thoughts?

Question: Is it when we allow and choose to focus on evil thoughts that it becomes a sin or when the thought first pops into our mind? How do we know which thoughts to confess? Do we repent only for the bad thoughts that we have entertained, or also for those that we have rejected when our thoughts flashed? Even if we try to worship and think about something else, if we don't get rid of the bad thoughts that pop up in our heads, do we also confess about them? Do we confess all the bad thoughts that pop into our heads?

Answer: There are many types and methods of sin which all fall under 3 categories: thoughts, words and actions. Every evil desire that a person has brought out in his inner conscience and has not yet put into action is called the sin of thought. This sin becomes sin of speech when it is spoken by the mouth. And if the sin that is said orally is put into action, it is called the sin of action.

The foundation of sin is thought, because no sin is committed without thought. If something happens unexpectedly, it is not often questioned. But he will be punished for not being careful in his simplicity. 

Therefore, every human being must get rid of the thoughts that are the root of sin. We should immediately correct ourselves by calling on the name of God and condemning Satan as it flashes in our mind. Therefore, when the thought of sin comes to our heart, if we immediately repent in our conscience and return to our mind, that is, without entertaining the thought, without saying it in words and without putting into action, then if we go to the priest and receive his blessings, kiss his cross, our sins will be forgiven. This is through the  authority given to the priest from God; saying  "Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven" Mat 18.18

Therefore, even if the thought of sin comes to our mind, if we don't think about it again and again, if we don't say it in words, if we don't put it into action, it will be forgiven by the blessings of the priest. Therefore, even though it is good to try not to forget this type of sin by saying that you will repent in the future, but in another way, keeping the sin in our mind and thinking about it again and again may create an opportunity for it to grow to the next level of sin. Therefore, the best way is to pray the priest's cross, go to church and pray, and remove this idea of sin from our hearts every day and stop thinking about it. Sin should not be something that we hoard like money, but something that we should get rid of regularly like garbage. This does not mean that we have to go and confess to our Father every day for the sin that we mentioned above as the sin of thought, but it is forgiven by the blessings of the priest's cross as explained above. Maybe if we are in an area where there is no priest and no church, we can talk to the priest by phone. And if this cannot be done, God knows our inner problems; Lord, forgive us, remove this thought from me, we pray in faith and believe that it has been done for us. 

However, it is important to understand that this kind of approach or receiving blessings from the priest does not free us from sins that we have committed by speech or by action. Also, as stated above, if we intend to do it and end up not because of inconvinient circumstances, it is considered that we have committed the sin of thought. Hence we need to repent for it. In general, if we reptedly think it in our mind, or if we speak it out, or if we get it into action, we need to  repent and confess and fulfill the canon given to us properly. At that time, all the damage we have done earlier knowingly and boldly, or unknowingly by mistake, will be forgiven all together.

Continued 👇

--- id:494 | date:2023-01-30T20:48:05 ---
Continued 👆🏾

In relation to this, if evil thought of sin come to our conscience and bother us, we should approach our father of Repentance and explain this thought to him to be healed from sin and receive the canon of repentance and counselling. The evil spirit that troubles us will also be driven away from us. Because if the conscience is not clean and purified, it will not give us peace, because that conscience is the voice of God in us, and it constantly asks us. Conscience is the greatest judge. Conscience reprimands, criticizes - we cannot deceive and silence it, we must listen to our conscience; Our conscience tells us the same when we are free. Moreover, the benefit of our repentance is that we are helped by prayer so that we are not tempted by the same sin again, and we can receive advice and instruction from the father of repentance, as well as rebuke the evil spirit that tempts us.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:495 | date:2023-01-31T20:42:02 ---
👉🏾 #solution to #adultry #fornication #sin

👉Question: I could not get rid of the sin of adultery, what should I do? (What is the cause and solution?)

✍Answer : Adultery is one of the main sins that God detests, hates and grieves. Adultery is sexual intercourse outside of one's husband or wife. Therefore, it is important to understand that the main function of adultery is to change the law of God with the law of the devil, which means changing our eternal life with eternal death. That is why our enemy, Satan the Devil, uses it as his main weapon to make us fall apart from the Creator and make us commit this type of sin that is most hated in the sight of God. Saitan makes us fall in this sin  by regularly tempting us in all it's different forms, and making everyone cooperate in this sin.

Causes and solutions of adultery

1. Natural emotion and free will

- When we are faced with sinful thoughts and actions that originate from inside or outside for various reasons, we often submit our free will to our temporary feelings and fall into sin. To get rid of this, knowing God, knowing the honor God has given to man, and doing spiritual work will help us to use our free will in a good way that God loves. There is no nobler creature than man; God's prophet David said, "Man was glorious, but he did not know it and became like an animal." When God gave human beings a mind to distinguish between good and evil, He set laws but with free will.

     Psalm 33:14 says, "Flee from evil, and do good." Therefore, if we keep the law and do good, we will be justified, and if we do not, we will be condemned. Therefore, it is important to know God's law and perform spiritual activities, such as fasting, prayer, prostration, reading spiritual books, prostrating, listening to hymns, listening to sermons, attending liturgy, regularly meeting with spiritual father (in person or over the phone) and regularly taking part of the Eucharist. When we strive to do these things, the spirit cannot stay in us, so it burns and moves away from us.
-
2. Battle of evil spirits -

We must always understand that the the evil spirit is able to make us sin because of our weak thoughts, attitudes, inclinations and desires. If Satan finds the small hole of the will, he will lick it like a snake and widen it, and he will lose us from our God. Therefore, even if we ourselves are partial to our own flesh and say that we have been misled to make Satan the reason for all the sins we have boldly committed, we will not escape responsibility. Therefore, it is better to be aware of Satan's methods, tools and ways he uses to tempt us, so that we will  stay away from sin. "Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for we are not ignorant of his devices". (2 Cor 2:11)

3. Keep yourself away from the sin of sins

When we are tempted by the idea of adultery, the basic reasons are:- 

We engage ourselves in the main causes that are the eve of adultery, such as watching sensational movies, talking about silly conversations, kissing, passionately hugging and rubbing, sleeping together, etc. In general, human beings perform related activities when their free will leads them to the thought of adultery, when they practice the idea secretly and when the spirit of fornication force them, they cannot control themselves. Therefore, we must stop not only doing the sin, but also thinking about it. If we reject the action in a real way, it must also be in thought too. Otherwise, if we entertain the idea in our thoughts; the reason we did not perform the act is considered to  be due to  inconvenience of the circumstances and not because we resisted not to perform it. Therefore, we should repent for this. We should stop sinning not only with action, but also with words and thoughts.

4. Living with an active conscience, praying

(to be continued )👇

--- id:496 | date:2023-01-31T20:53:52 ---
(continuef part)👆👇

4. Living with an active conscience, praying

To lead a person to sin, Satan does not initially concern himself with major sins. For example, if Satan wants to make someone commit adultery, he does not force the person to commit adultery directly, but first weakens his spiritual life by making him lazy so that he stops praying for example. Then he slowly leads him to the biggest sin of adultery.  In general, what he does before anything else is to separate the conscience from being one with its Lord, so that it does not notice what Saitan is doing. So we must pray, seek the Father of the soul, and read the scriptures. (1st Cor 7:34) there is nothing that Satan loves more than hindering prayer, because prayer is an arrow that pierces his eyes.  Therefore, we should always live in prayer and with an active conscience.

5. Eating less

Eating too much is one of the main causes of adultery. The more food we eat, the more temptations we have. Just like when we add more wood or gas to a fire, it will raise high, increasing the amount of food will also  increases the sensuality; but when we eat less, our flesh will be less powerful and out spirit more powerful. 

6. Repentance 

Among the ways of salvation that Satan fights for, there is none greater than repentance. This is because repentance destroys all the edifices of sin that the enemy, the devil, has built to destroy the lives of Christians, making it not exist by the grace of God. There is no sin that repentance does not wash away. Therefore, the devil fights in various ways too drive us away from repentance. Therefore, we need to be alert and repent today without taking any more time.

7. Not giving up

Even if we fail at one time, we must keep going until the end, even if we fall we must get up and never give up. It should be expected that the fight will be difficult, it will be exhausting, the devil doesn't want us free so when he knows we are struggling, he will fight back stronger. As St. Paul said, "Your battle is not against fleshly creatures, but against subtle spirits." God has given us the tools which enables us win, the choice is at our hand but needs commitment without giving up.

8. Getting enough understanding about marriage

Another reason that makes us vulnerable to adultery is our lack of understanding about marriage. We are going to send you some of the teachings and advice written about marriage in order to help the believers in general to walk properly according to God's -  learning about the spirituality of marriage and what our married life should look like is a must for every Christian. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:500 | date:2023-02-01T21:31:47 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, as some of you may be aware, the Ethiopian Orthodox Church is in the midst of a persecution by the Ethiopian government. Even though this has been going on for a long time, it has now reached a level where we either lose the integrity and sovereignty of the Church or we fight back their efforts.

The government's efforts to break the Church has been limitless and those of you who have been following the news will understand this better because what has been done is beyond most people's imagination of limitless efforts. 

Today is a historical day because the Holy Synod has made it's stances clear to the government and all of us. The Holy Synod has asked the government to act fast and take it's hands out from Church affairs or the Church will march all around the world to spread awareness of the persecution we are facing until the problem gets resolved. 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, these are times where we all need to do our due diligences and prove our faith. What is asked from us is to 

1) Live according to the teachings of the Church. 
2) Deliver on the Holy Synod's requests.

👉 It is meaningless for us to say we are Orthodox Christians and not walk in the path of rightousness. We must all sanctify ourselves and go at least one step further in our spiritual lives during these difficult times so God can quickly send His mercy up us. Practically speaking, if we don't have a father of repentance, we must strive and look for one now. If we are not partaking of the Eucharist, we must start today. If we do not partake from the Holy Flesh and Holy Blood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ often enough, we must strive to do so more often. 

As st. Paul said "We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places." (Ephesians 6:12) so we need to use all the spiritual weapons at our disposal to combat the evil because if we don't do it today, when will we?

👉 For the second point, we should keep an eye on the Holy Synod's announcements and act accordingly.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:502 | date:2023-02-02T20:44:58 ---
👉🏾 About #marriage

👉 Question #1: I have a lot of problems in my marriage. My marriage was done in church, in the Holy Communion! What do you recommend??

👉 Question #2:- I could not be a good wife. When I fight with my husband, I insult him, and want to strangle him very bad. What do you advise me?

✍Answer: Our dear member, basically, our church teaches that any Christian should not be separated from the Holy Body and the Precious Blood from the time they receive the sonship of God through Baptism and are sealed with the Holy Communion on the 40th or 80th day of their life until the end. Along with this, the Church emphasizes that it is a Christian obligation to marry in the Holy Communion. Because what makes our marriage real is if we are married in the sacrament. As it is written, "the two shall become one flesh" during the sacred marriage ceremony, the great mystery of which the two bodies are transformed into physical unity and spiritual unity though Christ's Holy Body and His Precious Blood. (Mark 10:8). Apart from this, if it is a worldly marriage, this mystery will not be fulfilled in which the two become one. In short, this pair cannot be called two but one.

Of course, when we think the fact that many believers are getting married in the secular system like the Gentiles, we appreicate your  appropriate Christian behavior to decide to perform your marriage in the Holy Communion; grace and blessings will be abundant for you. No matter how many lies and illegalities abound, those have never replaced a single truth; God's law never changes. Therefore, we recommend that people who are married in a worldly system without knowing this truth and God's law, should repent and be united in the sacrament so that their marriage can be called a true marriage. The reason we want to explain all this in our introduction is to create awareness for other members as well  based on the idea that our questioner's  raised  about getting married in Holy Communion.

Dear member, in your question, it seems that you have lost hope and already concluded the problem your marriage encountered cannot be solved at all. But you didn't specificaly mention to us what the problem is. Identifying the problem correctly is getting half of the solution so it would have been very useful if you specified. 

Hence, in response to your question, even if you have not mentioned the challenges you faced, we hereby explained to you a general way and perspective of how to manage your marriage with spiritual wisdom, so we entrust you to implement our advice:

There are two things that make a spiritual marriage strong. One is to be united in religion (live in religion) and the other is to be united in purity (righteousness). The lack thereof is what destroys marriages.  In other words, marriage is a partnership in which the spouses agree that there is nothing that can separate them apart from death, adultery, and changing their religion. Therefore, if marriage is a place where people enter and do not leave, then we should be careful and aware enough to enter into it not blindly but with knowledge.

Therefore, it is important to learn about the nature of marriage before marriage. A house can support its roof only when its foundation is strong, and marriage requires preparation not only for temporary feelings and happiness, but also for challenges that may be faced in the long run. Indeed, some marriages bring blessings to husband and wife, children, and others. And some marriages don't come with this. What is the difference? The main difference between these marriages is the purpose of the marriage. If they get married for material things, or to satisfy their lust, or any other similar worldly view, the marriage will not bring blessings. Those who get married with the goal of righteousness and to travel with the spiritual goal of attaining salvation and eternal life, their marriage brings great happiness and blessing not only to the couple, but also to their children and other people.   

(to be continued)👇

--- id:503 | date:2023-02-02T21:01:11 ---
(continued part)👆👇

St. John the Baptist taught us, this is why God instituted marriage - for those who cannot lead a monastic life, to live in marriage with the goal of righteousness!!!

Therefore, disagreements in Orthodox marriage can be compared to the Cross of Christ which we are called to carry.  Marriage requires not only happiness but also a willingness to bear these crosses. Therefore, some of the disagreements between the couple come from losing the orthodox path, forgetting the vision (purpose) of orthodox marriage, and not remembering that there is salvation, healing, justification, and blessing in the middle of the struggle. Therefore, the challenges we face in marriage can be overcome with wisdom and love. The important thing is that even if our spouse does not do what is expected of us, we should look at what is expected of ourselves in terms of the purpose of marriage. Marriage is not a worldly life of competition or abandonment, but the purpose of being justified by walking together and supporting each other. For this is either marriage in Christ or spiritual marriage. The martyrs entered the kingdom of heaven because they were killed by the sword and shed their blood for the sake of their religion, so we who are asked for a lesser price than this, should see our marriage as a good way of salvation and justification, and we deserve to fulfill our duty to live in love.

Even if there is a problem that is beyond our control, we should discuss how to cope, how to correct this mistake and solve the problem by talking openly, but we should not enter into inappropriate satanic thinking, hatred and revenge. Even God, who is pure by nature, did not want to destroy us after seeing all this dirty work of ours. Therefore, at any time, anywhere, any situation witout condition, since we the marriage promise we made is for our common purpose, we should mainly live with complete sympathy, love and forgiveness for our spouse. Even if there is a problem that is beyond our control, we should go as far as possible and solve the problem by talking openly about the way to correct our mistake in order to overcome it with the spirit of patience, forgiveness and tolerance. There is no one who can do my pre than we can to save our marriage, our children, and our future lives, so we ourselves, individually and collectively, must be ready to pay any price.

Therefore, we need to talk openly about the challenges and disagreements we may face in our marriage and how we can overcome them. Marriage is where we learn about love, where we live love, where we understand the love of Christ. Christ the Bridegroom loves the Church with a selfless and unconditional love. The love in marriage is the key to this perfect love as St. Gregory the Great tells us. "If we love one another, God will live in us, and his love is perfected in us." When we show this love in practice, we wash away our sins with that love (1 John 4:12). This is why we call marriage a journey of righteousness.

The Church is Christ's body and bridegroom, and the wife is her husband's body and bridegroom. In order for the body to function in a healthy manner, unless the feet or hands are sick, it works without disobedience. This is the body's system (nature). A wife is equal to her husband and they are one body. Therefore, she should submit to her husband as she submits to the Lord for their common health. (Eph 5:22) This is the Christian order (nature). One of the things that make a family not run properly is to confuse this transience (nature). We should remember that when a wife obeys her husband, she is participating in our Lord's work of salvation, not the obedience of a master and a slave. A wife obeying her husband does not mean that her husband is perfect. The only perfect bridegroom (husband) is our Lord Jesus Christ!
 
(to be continued)👇

--- id:504 | date:2023-02-02T21:05:56 ---
(continued part)👆👇

Therefore, no matter how weak a husband is, you should not despise him. If you want to correct his weakness, as St. Peter advised us, "Wives, if some of your husbands are disobedient to teaching, submit to them so that they may find instruction in the lives of their wives, watching your chaste lives with fear" (1 Peter 3:1).

The fathers say, "May God throw all the anger, the quarrels, the sickness, the spirit of hatred into the sea and into the cliff." We should learn from the Bible, from history and from other people we know or heared that there is no  justification for a fight, no justification for divorce. In general, marriage is martyrdom, and our ancestors achieved martyrdom through many hardships, but our martyrdom is mainly to live patiently with the marriage we started.

Therefore, our dear member, we have briefly explained the spirituality of marriage above in this lesson, we believe that if you understand this properly, you will have learned the wisdom of caring instead of fighting, being one instead of being separated, loving instead of revenge and resentment, loving instead of hating, being justified instead of being lost.

We give you this as a general understanding and advice and we will give you advice based on the rest when you identify the problem you are facing and let us know. So contact us soon before Satan escalates the problem and turns your life into a chaos.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:508 | date:2023-02-03T20:30:24 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A brief about #John's #Repentance spiritual service

This service is the English version of our Amharic service የዮሐንስ ንስሐ፦ https://t.me/+ReLdpifiso4Sz04q

The purpose of this service is to bridge the language barrier that many face when trying to learn about the faith and bring the success we had with the Amharic program to a whole new set of audience. 

We provide 24/7 Q&A support, lessons on the major feasts, lessons on the teachings of the church, a medium where fellow Orthodox can connect, discuss and encourage one onother. Members can ask publicly on Telegram or privately on Facebook, Telegram or using our email address. 

We also provide spiritual support over phone by assisting in a number of ways. 

We post everyday at 11:30pm EST on Telegram and have presence in other social medias as well: 

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/johnrepentancechristianorthodox
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/johnsrepentance.orthodox.qna/
Telegram: https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh
TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@orthodoxqnas?_t=8ZaNxODGqqp&_r=1
Website: yohannesneseha.org (click English for language)

The intended audience for our service is anyone age 16 and up. This is a very safe space where people ask about anything and everything which is why we have an age restriction. However we do not have a faith restriction: anyone who wants to learn about the faith is welcome. They can ask questions, read what we post, call us and use the service to help them in their spiritual journey. 

Our service is not common and the best way to understand the value we offer is to experience it by asking questions, reading regularly, inviting friends, communicating with your fellow brothes and sisters, calling us for spiritual support, staying fully engaged and practicing what you learn. 

You may also share hyms, icons, news and so forth that you think is super useful to your Orthodox brothers and sisters as long as it doesn't have a link.

You can search through content using this method: 

Say you want to read about marriage, then you search #marriage and all the answers and lessons that have 'marriage' as their topic will show up. If you want to read a lesson, you choose the ones that has 3 hands (👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾) whereas if you want Q&A, you choose the ones thtat have 1 hand only (👉🏾). 

Say you want to search all the content that have both 'repentance' and 'fornication' in the topic, then you search: #repentance #fornication and you will get all the relevant results. 

Clicking the highlighted text above will also take you to those topics.

This service has the blessings of Abune Ermias (Bishop) which can be seen in some of our YouTube videos (in Amharic), is mainly lead by Like Hiruyan Tserse Abebe (Priest, church Scholar and head of the EOTC's public relations department), Aba Wolde Giorgis (Monk), Memeher Simur Getenet (priest and Church scholar)

Although the above are the major personals in the service, there are numerous others who serve day and night as volunteers.

Although the Church that has initiated this service is the EOTC, we sometimes reference and allow you to post material from any Orthodox Church, eastern and oriental.   

It is the order of God that His people first be served and thus we have done for the past three years with the Amharic service. By the will of God we are now providing the service in English so everyone can learn about the true faith regardless of their background. Hence we urge you to spread awareness of this service and be a reason for the salvation of your friends, family and even coworkers. Do not hide God's talent in the ground (The Parable of the Talents Matthew 25:14-30)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:511 | date:2023-02-04T21:19:12 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 "Beloved people of God, we greet you with the greetings of God, who are following the orthodox education transmitted by John's Repentance telegram website. We have sent you below to read the decision of the Holy Synod of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church today, February 4, 2023 (Tir 27, 2015 E.C.)"

The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church passed the following resolutions in an emergency meeting called by the Holy Synod.

1 . The Holy Synod strongly condemns the illegal arrest and harassment of Archbishops and Diocese Managers, Heads of Departments, Priests and the faithful;

2. On February 4, 2023 (Tir 27, 2015 E.C) in Shashemene city of Western Arsi Diocese, in Debre Sebhat St. Michael local church, the Holy Synod completely condemns the illegal human rights violation and the brutal death of the parishioners who came out to protect the church. The Holy Synod decided that prayer of absolution should be done in all localities by making appropriate synodal and religious prayers; 

3. It is recalled that in the decision and statement of the Holy Synod on February 3, 2023 (Tir 26, 2015 E.C.), all the followers of the church should fast the fast of Nineveh and dress black throughout the entire fast. 

   3.1. We see that it is necessary to draw up a detailed implementation guide for this. For 3 days starting from Februarh 6, 2023 (Tir 29, 2015 E. C), the Holy Synod decided that all the priests and laymen in all the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo churches, all over the world should wear all black and hold prayer ceremonies in the churches and monasteries.

    3.2. In all activities during this time, be sure to wear black clothes as it is the Holy Synod's order. However, after the Holy Synod announced this order  international schedule of prayers and dress code yesterday, we understand that black clothes are being taken out of the market in various cities. The Holy Synod has decided that you should use the similar clothes that you have and carry out the decision of the Holy Synod in all your activities.

   3.3. During these days, the Holy Synod decided that the service should be performed with a loudspeaker and that the service should be performed full time and that during the seven hours of prayer, the bells shall be rang for five straight minutes without ceasing. 

       3.4. The Holy Synod has decided that the parish councils of each diocese, district church and local churches should monitor and enforce this.

       3.5. We call on sister churches, the Orthodox world, any religious or social institutions and individuals who know and support the truth to stand together in support of the call of our Holy Church.

4. In these times of prayer and Oath, if hardened hearts do not return to their heart  and apply the call of the Church:
 
    4.1. On February 12, 2023 (Yekatit 5 2015 E.C), Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church priest)s and believers in the country and abroad will attend the Mass from 05:00 am in their local churches until 7:30 am. And the churches ringing the bell at the same time, making all the worshipers gather until 8:30 in the morning; The Holy Synod has decided that a peaceful demonstration should be held from every area to the same place, the baptistry [local area where churches gather for Epiphany - this mainly applies to churches in Ethiopia] or Meskel Square [if in Addis Abeba], celebrating the 'tabot', accompanying it and singing hymns. 

     4.2. The Holy Synod urges you to make arrangements, knowing that we will inform you in a short time about the detailed instructions for the implementation of this peaceful demonstration.

     5. The Holy Synod urges any security force of the government to realize that it has the duty to provide appropriate protection in any period of service in which the church orders peaceful requests, recognizing that their activities are peaceful.

Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church Holy Synod
February 4, 2023 (Tir 27, 2015 E.C)
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:517 | date:2023-02-05T20:30:14 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Church

It is Christ who founded the Church

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance website; This lesson prepared based on the topic is found in the book 'Hebr Serat Zebetristian Orthodox', and we have translated the lesson and made it available to you by referring to the recent challenges the Church has faced: We entrust you all to read it and gain a comprehensive understanding of the connection between the Church and religion.

1. It is Christ who founded the church

Christ founded the church on Peter's religion. Peter's religion is to believe that Christ is God, the Son of God, the Alpha and Omega, who prophesied in the past through the prophets, and who fulfilled the prophecies that God spoke by becoming a man, who is one body from two bodies, one nature from two natures, God. . In order to understand that this religion was Peter's, when the Lord asked the Council of Caesarea, "Who do people call the Son of Man?", the other disciples said what they had heard from people, that they call you Elijah, John the Baptist, one of the prophets, but the question did not end there, because the Lord answered, "Who do you say that I am?" St. Peter replied, "You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God." Matthew 16:16 John 1:41

And another time, when the Lord was teaching about the sacrament, many of the people were going back saying, "This is troubling, who can hear it?" When the Lord asked the apostles, "Would you like to go too?" Saint Peter replied, "Lord. To whom shall we go when you have the promise of eternal life? "We believe and know that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God," he testified to his religion and that of his companions. John 6:80-89

In his message, when Saint Peter himself spoke about Christ's death, he said, "He died in the flesh, but he is alive in the spirit (divinity)." 1 Pet 3:19 This is what Peter's religion means. Whoever does not believe in this religion is different from the unity of the church, which is the family of the members of the body of Christ, and is not called a follower of Peter.  Therefore, the orthodox church was founded, stood firmly, and will continue forward, holding this creed of the great apostle St. Peter as its foundation. Rtu Hai page 34

John the Evangelist said this in his message, "Who is a liar but he that denies that Jesus is the Christ?" 1st John 2:22 "Whosoever believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God: and every one that loves him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him. He said. 1 John 5:1 Therefore, a person is called a Christian when he knows the teaching of the apostles and understands their religion well, accepts it and follows it. Apart from this, a religion made arbitrarily, by chance, by one's will, by one's own philosophy and guidance does not save from judgment. 

What explains that Peter's religion is correct: The Lord heard Peter's words and did not keep silent. "And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." Matthew 16:16-17. Therefore, Peter's foundation is religion. The religion is "Only son" (The pre-world, born of a father without a mother, the after-world, born of the Virgin Mary without a father, Jesus Christ is an only child.). It is a part of the church of Christ that stands and grows on the rock of Peter. Peter's foundation is belief, and Christ's foundation is trust: "For it has been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you." 11). 1st Qor 1፥11

(continues)👇

--- id:519 | date:2023-02-05T20:33:02 ---
(continued part)👆👇

The church is said to be founded and sustained by the prophecies of the prophets, the sermons of the apostles, the teachings of the scholars, the wisdom of the martyrs, the prayers of the righteous saints, and the hard work of the devotees day and night. "Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God;" Eph 2:19-20. When we say that Christ founded the church, we mean that he is the one who was pierced by a spear and poured the holy water from his right side, crucified on the cross, raised it with his broken flesh and shed blood, and he is its origin and its destination.

This means: The first Adam produced Eve who brought death from his side, and the second Adam produced from his side the holy water on which the life-giving church was founded. For the head is above all the bodies and is the gathering place of all the bodies, and Christ as the head of the church is the home of all believers. "For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones." Eph 5:30 - "The tree was first of all, all things were established by him, he is the head of the church, the first tree was raised from the dead to be the head of all" Col 1:17 Eph 1:21, Eph 5:23

2. Be careful ye who build on this foundation
 
Christ founded the church and did not leave it. He has chosen and appointed seven apostles who will lead and manage the church and teach about Him. "And he gave grace, and appointed apostles from the churches, and from them prophets and evangelists, guardians and teachers, so that the saints may be steadfast in the work of the ministry and the building up of the body of Christ" Ephesians 4:11 1 Corinthians 12:27

Therefore, these appointed, from the believing people and from the Gentiles, teaching, persuading, baptizing, circumcising, presenting to God. Then, with the authority given to them, they confess the believers and confess their sins and ask God for mercy and forgiveness. "For God has reconciled the world to himself in Christ by forgiving their sins and not thinking about their transgressions, and he has made the word of reconciliation to us, and he has given us the message of forgiveness.

This does not mean that they will establish a new foundation, but they will build upon the established one, and prevent it's destruction through education. They prepare the way to God. It means that they strive to bring people to the kingdom of God. "According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon." 1 Cor 3:10

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:521 | date:2023-02-06T20:31:59 ---


--- id:522 | date:2023-02-06T20:31:59 ---


--- id:523 | date:2023-02-06T20:31:59 ---


--- id:524 | date:2023-02-06T20:34:49 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Fast of #Nineveh

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about the feast of Naniveh written by Pope Shenouda III of the Coptic Orthodox Church because it is important to understand the story behind it and why we fast, so we can relate to the people of Naniveh, learn from them and get the blessings of this fast which is from February 6-9. 

Fast of Nineveh is three days subsequent fast and repentance of the Ninevites by the warning message of the Prophet Jonah. It is known to be the fast of repentance, humility and the return to God. Thus, the Church considers this fast amongst the Great Fast; Lent and other Fasts.

The people of Nineveh fasted, wore sackcloth from the youngest to the oldest and prayed to God for forgiveness. God accepted their repentance; “God saw their works that they turned from their evil way; and God relented from the disaster that He had said He would bring upon them; and He did not do it.” (Jonah 3:10)

The story of Jonah presages the redemptive work of Lord Jesus Christ. God send Prophet Jonah to the people of Nineveh for they were Gentiles and needed repentance. “But in every nation whoever fears Him and works righteousness is accepted by Him.” (Acts 10:35)

God saved the mariners on the boat who were Gentiles through Jonah for they were men seeking the Lord. Tough, they prayed to their gods they knew the true God is the almighty. So, they asked Jonah to pray to his God. Prophet Jonah also told the mariners, “I am a servant of the Lord, and I worship the Lord God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land.” Believing his words, they feared the Lord and offered Him sacrifices. (Jonah 1:16, 1:9-10)

Then, even after he told them to throw him in the sea; “They were endeavoring to find God’s will in order that they might carry it out. When the sea ceased its raging by their throwing Jonah into it they were assured of the presence of God in the matter. They believed in the Lord, offered Him a sacrifice and made vows. In their belief in the Lord they not only believed that He was God but by offering Him a sacrifice they professed their belief in the propitiation of blood.” (Jonah 1:13)

However, it was not the will of God for Jonah to drawn, so He prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah and uses the whale to save him. Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights praying to God. At the third day, God answered his prayers and the whale put Jonah put out on dry Land; He did not prepare it to destroy him but to preserve him.

God command Prophet Jonah again to go to Nineveh. He was first commanded to preach the Ninevites although his prophecy did not reach upon them till after the whale had emitted him out.

God saves Jonah from his pride as he was still egocentric when He caused a plant with thick leaves to grow up and shade Jonah from the sun and GOD destroyed the plant with worm. The next day, he suffered from the heat of a wind blow. Once more, with rage, Prophet Jonah wished his death and God reveals his mercy and compassion through the plant.

Prophet Jonah was preaching God’s words to spread His kingdom in Nineveh City and God willed to save Ninevites. “A greater than Jonah is here” Jonah was a figure of Lord Christ. Saint Cyril of Jerusalem says, “As Jonah was thrown to the belly of the whale, the Lord Christ went by His own will to the unseen whale of death, to coerce him to give those who were swallowed by him; as it is written, “I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem them from death.” (Matthew 12:41, Hosea 13:14)

The Ninevites were saved by the Prophet Jonah. Saint John Chrysostom said, “Nineveh freed itself from death by fasting. Like a heavenly power overseeing Nineveh’s charge, fasting snatched the city from the gates of death and returned Nineveh to Life."

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:525 | date:2023-02-06T20:38:05 ---
Continued 👆

Thus, “Let us use these three days to offer repentance from our hearts, as did the Ninevites, seeking the forgiveness of our sins. Let us give thanks to the Lord who prepares our way for us through all tribulations and trials, as He prepared the belly of the whale for Jonah. Let us put ourselves before our Lord, as humble obedient and faithful servants of the One True God, seeking to hear the message that He desires to give to the world through us.”

May the blessings of this Holy Fast bring to our hearts, minds, and spirits the true love, mercy, longsuffering nature, and compassion of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

Source: H.H. Pope Shenouda III – Contemplations on the Book of Jonah the Prophet

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:526 | date:2023-02-07T20:30:45 ---


--- id:527 | date:2023-02-07T20:30:45 ---


--- id:528 | date:2023-02-07T20:30:45 ---


--- id:529 | date:2023-02-07T20:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Tears of #repentance 

Dear members of John's Repentance page; We have sent you the following educational message regarding the tears of repentance so we entrust you to read and take it to heart as you fast, pray and suppoicate God to send his mercy upon us. 

There is a legend that has been told since ancient times. The Almighty God said to the angels, "Go to the earth and bring the most precious things that you find on earth." One of the angels brought a drop of blood that a man had shed to save another man. The Most High God said, "O angel; This that you have brought is glorious in my sight. However, it is not the most glorious one. Another angel came from a patient who died of an infectious disease and a nurse who died from the disease and brought her last breath. The Most High God said, "O angel; This that you have brought is glorious in my sight. However, it is not the most glorious one. Finally, another angel brought the tears of a sinner who had repented in a small cup before God. And God said to the angel, "O angel; "You have brought to me the most noble thing in the world," he replied. (Philokalia: the Bible of Orthodox Spirituality p.159)

The way for a person to return to God after he has sinned is through tears of repentance. The psalmist, Saint David, often tells us about the blessed pearl of the Holy Spirit. Let's notice what he said, "I wash my bed all night long, and I wipe my bed with my tears." He said this because his repentance is through the grace and mercy of the Holy Spirit. For his repentance was not in vain like the repentance of Judas. Again, the psalmist tells us that "weeping will come in the evening, but in the morning there will be joy" (Ps 29 (30):5). This signifies the joy of the Holy Spirit given with tears. It is related to what the Lord said in the Gospel, "Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted" (Matthew 5:4). Tears give spiritual rest to the soul lost in sin, and cause it to gain insight and the revelation of mysteries. When the Holy Gospel talks about Saint Peter, it says, "He went outside and wept bitterly" (Luke 22:62). He received the great responsibility to feed and lead the believers after walking in tears

Our ancestors taught that tears are a gift from God to give birth to a new life. Baptism is one; If a person sins after baptism and is in the work of death, his return and "rebirth" is this tear of repentance. Through the tears of repentance, he renews the grace that he received in baptism, but which was later corrupted by sin.

St. John the Baptist said, "The fire of sin is steadfast." But a few drops of tears extinguishes the burning of mistakes (like fire) and purifies our souls. He teaches us this spiritual lesson. Because the tears of true repentance are a gift from God, it explains to us that no matter how bad a person's wrongdoing is, it has the power to destroy that serious sin. St. John said this to indicate that a person can do wrong because of his free will, and whether he does not use it, will be questioned at the time of judgment. We find this holy father often teaching about tears of repentance. One of his teachings where he explained that "tears are both the mother and child of prayer" is worth mentioning. Tears have a great place for a person's eternal life and the union of grace with God. It makes a person compassionate, pure, loving others, forgiving and humble. If he does this, he will live forever as his creator (God).

In general, all members; Thinking only of God's things, we should repent, be in a broken heart to fulfill our canon properly, and pray with tears; Similarly, if we come across other things that can mislead or distract us, we recommend that we need to stay away from them so that we don't fall into sin.

We will return in the next lesson about the obstacles to repentance, so stay tuned

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:531 | date:2023-02-08T20:30:20 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Sin of #Masterbation

The category and level of this sin; its Cause; and its Impact and the Solution

Category and level of Masterbation sin. 

Masturbation is one of the highest level of sin that is outside the law and order of nature. This type of sin, which Satan has devised as a new philosophy of fornication, is called Masterbation. It is a shameful act of sex with oneself in which a man spills his seed hiding behind a closed door and burning with adultery desire, for he failed to control his tempted emotion for a second. The main method by which Satan makes people easily subject to this sin is through a secret way of individiual training so that men and women assured themselves as if they did not committed adultery as long as they didn't sleep with or get near to anyone. However, this is even graver failure than those who commit adultery between a man and a woman because it is out of natural law and order. In fact, the idea of homosexuality starts from this and it is connected to the spirit of homosexuality. It can be understood from the stories in the Bible that it is a type of sin that will destroy the world if people refuse to repent by cooprating in this sin.

In this age, it is a type of sin that children and adults are suffering from, and many of them have been trained secretly by Satan since their childhood. What's worse is that the sin is private and hidden, and apart from being hard to control, it is difficult to get rid of the habit that one has been accustomed to since childhood. Many people knowingly or unknowingly started it as easy and simple, but it becomes hard to talk openly about their problem or to repent ; as they feel ashamed; so most did not find a solution.  But when we say all these, we are not shaming or pressing their wounds, but it is intended mainly to give lesson to show that it is the path of destruction that Satan has opened for people. So that they need to decide to get rid of this sin once and for all and repent.

On the other hand, for those who have not committed this sin, it is said in the Holy Book to "flee from fornication" (1 Cor 6:18), so that God may protect them from this evil and they should understand the severity of the sin of fornication in advance and refrain from this danger. Therefore, it is necessary for you to understand that , the reason  we talk about this subject again and again is that the youth of our time are lost due to lack of mentors and teachers. As it is said, "My people are lost for lack of knowledge" (Hosea 4:6).

In general, it is important to understand that the main function of adultery is to replace God's law with the devil's law, which means replacing our eternal life with eternal death. That is why our enemy, Satan the devil, is using this type of adultery as his main weapon to separate us from the Creator and is fighting to bring all mankind to the same path of destruction. When everyone joins in sin, the destruction it brings not only to the individual, but also to the country and the earth. As you know, the main cause of the plagues that happened to the people of Noah's day was the sin of adultery.
 
The Impact of Masterbation

Let's look at the main problems and effects of masterbation:

1. Lose virginity

if a person is  virgin but keeps on committing masterbation, he/she can't say I am a virgin simply because he/she doesn't slept with a woman or a man, or touched anyone. but if we say so,  1st/ We are lying to ourselves and to God, 2nd/ We are committing homosexual acts on ourselves, 3rd/ We are wasting our seed. Therefore, a person who falls into the sin of mastrbation  is considered to have done worse than adultery with a man or woman outside of marriage. In addition, the possibility of partaking of spiritual gifts and ceremonies where virginity is a primary requirement becomes questionable. It is because Satan knows this that he has been training us in the work of destruction since we were very young, so that he can easily make us fall down and deprive us of glory.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:532 | date:2023-02-08T20:33:02 ---
About Sin of Masterbation

(Part 2 )

However, if they did it unconsciously at a young age and without any religious understanding or spiritual knowledge and without realizing that it is a natural shame;  they then will approach their spiritual father. The Prist then will analyse the given reasons against the level of the offense, taking in to consideration that they did not have a mentor and a teacher, and  then he may decide on it giving the appropriate canon of repentance.

2. Sin is the death of the soul

Each of our sins is written in God's record. So  if we repent of the sin we have committed, tell our repentant Father, and wash away our wrongdoing with tears of repentance, it will be erased.  But if we are saving our sins like money, being ashamed to tell the priest today, We will be judged. Because we don't know when we will be called, we will be told to 'go away from me' on the Day of Resurrection If we don't prepare and wait in repentance. Because if we die while we are in sin and do not repent, we will suffer hell. Therefore,   living under sin is death for the soul, suffering and curse for the flesh. Therefore, this leads to eternal death.

3. It causes self-doubt and loneliness

To live in sin is death and slavery, for sin destroys peace, rest, tranquility, understanding. It can lead to anxiety, loneliness, and lack of self-confidence. It keeps away from the grace and grace of the Holy Spirit. It surrenders his thoughts and actions to the lust of the flesh. It takes away from the sonship of God, from the protection of the Trinity, from life and from the love and goodness of God.

The main causes of Masterbation

The following are considered to be the root cause of homosexuality and masturbation. 

1. Natural feeling and free will

Of course, since it is natural to be attracted to the other sexe, it is impossible to say why those feelings arose. But since it is possible to sanctify the emotions, it is possible to sanctify them by running away from evil and doing good. If the horse is headed for a cliff, the rider does not only tighten the bridle; He guides the horse in the right way. David says, "And do good" (Ps 33:14), avoiding evil and doing good are connected to each other. Therefore, when such feelings come to us, apart from avoiding them, it is also important to do spiritual work. Among these are fasting, prayer, prostration, reading spiritual books, prostrating, listening to hymns, listening to sermons, attending congregations, consecrating mass; Receiving spiritual advice while calling the repentant father. When we strive to do this, the spirit burns away from us because it cannot stay with us.

2. The battle of the evil spirit

We must always understand that the root cause of evil spirits is our weak thoughts, attitudes, or free will and desires. If Satan finds the smallest hole of will, he will lick it wide like a snake. And he will take us away from our God. Satan will drive us to the edge of sin if we don't think about it. He praises us until we fall, but after we fall, He praises us more than He praised us before, or He hardens our hearts and appoints us as the next role of the executor. The solution to this is to fall and get up, fight somehow and come back with repentance.

3. By not distancing yourself from sin

We tempt ourselves by not keeping ourselves away from sin. So, Stop talking about sensual nonsense in person or on the phone, Stop watching pornography, Stop watching and reading social media related to fornication, Stop watching erotic music videos and erotic images posted on social media for business use; also avoid bad advice and being influence by friends or others.  

(Part 3 continues)👇

--- id:533 | date:2023-02-08T20:36:02 ---
About Sin of Masterbation

(Part 3 )

Generally avoid looking at these things with the idiom instead of saying "what's wrong since I can control myself"  Because if the natural will of a human being leads him to the idea of adultery, he will begin to consume the idea, and later, when he cannot control himself, the spirit of fornication will come to put the idea into practice. 

Therefore, at the beginning, we should stay away from any sensational and adulterous actions and social networks, especially not to put our hands in the area of shame, and stop not only the act of sin, but also stop thinking about it.

4. Absence of conscious awareness and not praying

Not being diligent in the spiritual life will make us pay a big price. If our lives are not guided by the mentorship of a penitent father, by fasting, prayer and worship, we will be close to Satan's temptations. Therefore, fasting, prayer and prostration are required. There should be a private prayer that you pray morning and night without ceasing. Also, as much as the spirit dwells in the body through fasting and prostration, it burns and flees from us. In addition, if we put the cross or holy books as a shield to protect us from demons in the area where we sleep, then it will burn the demons and weaken their power, so they will disappear completely.

5. Repentance

In the journey of life there is a fall and a rise in sin. The solution to our defilement is repentance. There is no stain of sin or crime that repentance does not wash away. Because of this, even though human beings should repent, they will never stop doing their best to prevent it from happening soon. One of the dangers of procrastination is changing the heart prepared for repentance and destroying the opportunity for repentance. If sin is not eradicated immediately, it becomes a deep-rooted addiction, and this can over time extinguish and harden the spark of repentance in our hearts. Therefore, it is necessary to confess that what we have committed is a serious sin of adultery, we hate this act of destruction from the heart, we are afraid and ashamed of it, and we vow to never return to it, let alone think about committing it in the future, and repent. Our father of repentance has the responsibility of constantly monitoring and teaching us until we completely get out of this sin.

6. The main thing is not to give up!!!

 Even if we fail once, we must rise again and again and continue to the end. The struggle can be hard for you, it can be overwhelming, especially when you are about to be exposed, the struggle is very strong. If you fall every day, if you stumble all week, if you fall in sin every month, falling is always there; The main thing is that there is a change for the better from time to time, so don't give up and shake off your dust and get up for a great fight.

Finally, to get more knowledge to improve your spiritual life and separate yourself from this sin, we recommend that you regularly follow the spiritual advice and teaching, as well as the answers to questions, that we convey on this website of John's Repentance.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:536 | date:2023-02-09T20:40:41 ---


--- id:537 | date:2023-02-09T20:40:41 ---


--- id:538 | date:2023-02-09T20:40:41 ---


--- id:539 | date:2023-02-09T20:40:50 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The four #church names

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on the website of John's Repentance; In view of the recent challenges facing our church, it is important to convey a series of teachings about the church. For today, we have sent you a lesson from a book. We ask that you all read it and gain understanding so that we can protect the church together.

1. The church is one

This means that the church is one that is not divided by race, color, tribe, tribe, country, border, village, language, etc. Everyone who is a Christian in Christ does not separate the existence of these from the communion of Christ's church. "For as the body is one, and has many members, and all the members of that body, being many are one body:  so is Christ." We are all baptized into one spirit to become one body. Whether we are Jews, pagans, slaves, or free, we have all drunk of one Spirit" 1. Cor 12:12 Eph 4:4 John 17:21

2.The Church is Holy

When the scholars translated the word "holy", they said it means pure, strong, noble and special. Therefore, when we say that the church is holy, we mean purity, integrity, honor, and specialness. "Sanctify them in your truth, for your word is true..I will sanctify myself for them, so that they may be truly holy." You are the temple, so do not defile the temple of God" 1 Cor 3:17; 1 Cor 6:19-20 1 Pet 20:15

When scholars teach: "The believers themselves are the church." "Holy" means purity, integrity, dignity, and specialness. It is perseverance, that is to say, one who perseveres in religion. She is pure, because she cleanses from sin when you touch her. She is glorious, for she is glorified by the blood of Christ. Why do we call her "Mother"? because as a mother keeps her children alive by feeding them, the church also keeps her children alive by feeding them the holy flesh and holy body of Christ.

3.. The church is for everyone

This means that the church is given to all, is available to all, found everywhere, is not divided by the country or the government. It was created only for the children of Jacob according to the Old Testament law; but in new Testament She is called Kulawit (for all) because she can be found and used by everyone.

"The fruit of blessing (the flesh and the blood) that will be the food of the saints is a vine whose ends are in heaven and whose roots are in the earth." Also, for a tree, it has a trinity: the root is the father, the trunk is the the son and the branch is a symbol of the Holy Spirit. In such a case, it should not be called three trees, but one tree.  Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are three in name  body and in task, While they've are one in character, existence, rule, power, and government.

The other one is that the Lord preaches the church to all, saying that he was crucified on Calvary in the center of the earth and said, "I did not show partiality with my cross." Later, the apostles were sent to the whole world, not just to one country. › Matthew 28:19 Col 3:11 Gal 3:25

4. . The Church is apostolic

The Orthodox Church listens to the teachings of the apostles and perseveres in their religion, knowing what the apostles learned from the Lord and preserving its traditions and living until the coming of Christ. It is called the Apostolic Church because it transmits to the succeeding generation what they commanded in their synods in their canons and books, which carries on the footsteps of the apostles, and where the priesthood system that came from the apostles is found, and is unbroken. Because life has been revealed to us, and we have seen it and we are witnesses, we will tell you the eternal life that is from the Father and has been revealed to us."

Source: ኀብረ ሥርዓት 
መምህር አብርሃም አረጋ

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:541 | date:2023-02-10T20:33:36 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The spirit of #anxiety

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance website; Based on the title mentioned in above, we have sent you the following important lesson, so we entrust you to read and learn from it.

Although there are different levels to it, anxiety is a regular experience and challenge for everyone. But our Lord Jesus Christ told us  "don't worry about anything". There is nothing permitted or commanded to worry about. But what if we are still worried? We should remember that we are told 'Throw all your worries and thoughts on me'. Jesus Christ is the only king of peace who assures us that if we leave all our worries on him, we will find a solution by presenting himself as a surety. Rich investors, not even our parents can guarantee that everything will be alright. So the secret to living without worry is to trust in Him and be above the things that can worry us. "He cares about you, so cast all your worries on Him." 1 Peter 5:7

For this, we must trust God and understand the dignity of our bodies and the meaning of our identity. And this is what our Lord commanded us in His Word: "But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things will be added to you." Matthew 6:33

Man was created to subdue the earth from its creatures. (Genesis 1:28) All creatures other than humans were created to better the lives of humans. The only ruler over mankind is the Creator. And the price paid by the creator is the final price. Therefore, the creator is the God of freedom and the king of peace. And he created man to be the heir of the kingdom, the exponent of his glory. Therefore, he does not want worries, harm and destruction. For this reason, he told us "Don't worry about anything." Therefore, if a person understands his meaningful self, he will not succumb to anxiety. Even if there is something to worry about, he casts it on his God who created him with a meaningful being and he rests. "The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God." Philippians 4:6. We don't have a better option than this, because nothing changes with the amount of stress. "Who can add a cubit to his height by being anxious?" (Matthew 6:27)

What we need to understand here is that don't worry doesn't mean be complacent. Don't worry, it doesn't mean we shouldn't plan. Don't worry means give it to God who has better things than you. "He cares about you, so cast all your worries on Him." 1 Peter 5:7 Compassion and anxiety are different. Anxiety means worrying and worrying about spiritual and physical issues that have happened or are expected to happen. So, anxiety/worry is something we can't change or think beyond our control. Planning for the future and thinking about tomorrow has nothing to do with anxiety. Likewise, worry has nothing to do with planning for the future. To think today, to achieve what we thought, to work hard, is expected of us and will make our life sweeter tomorrow. But when our peace is disturbed, when our stability is lost, when we are unable to communicate with others, when we are lonely, when we are constantly depressed, when we fail to do our work properly, then we are not thinking, but we are worrying.

Usually, when we weigh the things that we have burdened our conscience against the reality, their burden is less than what we have estimated and given to them. That's why many people say, "was that all for why I was so depressed?," after paying a high price for anxiety. When a person gives in to something that scares them, the result is to ignore the problem. But the solution is to ask the God we worship and make a firm decision, to generate a solution with prayer, and not to ignore the problem with conscience.

(continues )👇

--- id:542 | date:2023-02-10T20:45:38 ---
(continued part)👆👇

However, some individuals get involved in matters that do not pertain to them or become concerned about an issue where they lack a complete understanding of the cause and consequences. This results in an emotional pain that resembles a physical ailment, where the individual is suffering without being able to express their distress without causing harm.

This intangible and invisible emotional pain cannot be treated by conventional medicine and is difficult to diagnose. Thus, it requires a spiritual solution to address this spiritual problem.

If we do not guide someone who is trapped in anxiety and temptation to the path of peace, even if we offer advice and quote biblical verses, they may not hear it. This is because once they are caught in the problem, it becomes difficult to escape, but if they had the proper understanding from the start, they would have been able to avoid it. For a person in depression, it may seem like there is no solution, but our Lord offers comfort and hope, "Come to me, all of you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light" (Matthew 11:28).

Let's look at the stress solutions in order:

(to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:575 | date:2023-02-11T20:36:06 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Methods and spiritual advice to help us prevent #Anxiety

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance website; recall that we have taught about the nature of anexity yesterday. Today, we have sent you the next part regarding the cause and solution of anxiety as follows, so we entrust you to read and learn from it.

1) First of all, it is important to identify the cause of our anxiety

Anxiety stays in our life for a long time and it makes our life miserable when we don't know the real reason of the anxiety. Many people fall into this dilemma and are heard to say, "I don't even know what's bothering me." But most of the time, when we examine the root of our anxiety, we find it to be fear. And fear is a bully against those who do not have faith in God and the weak. In addition, the so-called sources of stress, such as sadness, panic, conflict and anger, are directly or indirectly the source and aggravating means of stress.

Therefore, if we are not able to calmly examine the cause of our anxiety and find a solution to the problem, it will deprive us of many good things and our inner peace. Therefore, it is important to identify the source of our anxiety. We should also distance ourselves from negative emotions. And we're told we can't make a difference by worrying. "Who can add a cubit to his stature by being worried about you?" (Matthew 6:27)

If we know the root cause of the problem, we should not take the problem seriously. Often, when we weigh the things we weigh in our conscience, they weigh less than we have given them. That's why many people say, "That's why I'm so depressed," after paying a high price for anxiety. When a person gives in to something that scares them, the result is to ignore the problem. But the solution is to support the God we worship and make a firm decision to deal with it through prayer, but not to ignore the problem with conscience.

2) The battle of the spirit

If we don't know the real cause and consequences of the problem or the situation that is making us streas, or if we are stressed without facing anything to worry about, this means that there is an evil spirit that is fighting against us. This type of problem is common among many people and we need to walk away from this mentality once we know that we are victims of this. 

 Therefore, by taking spiritual medicine, which means by fasting, praying, prostrating, believing, listening to the word of God, holding prayer, we silence the spirit of anxiety that has made our whole life a battlefield.

3) Believe in God

(Continues )👇

--- id:576 | date:2023-02-11T20:42:53 ---
3) Believe in God

(Continued part)

God says, "Stand on the road and look, and know where the former road leads to, and walk on it and you will find rest for your souls /Jer 6:16/"  
When we are worried, God's grace is far from us because anxiety is disbelief. And if we do not believe, God's grace cannot be with us. And if we are alone, there is nothing we can handle so when we worry, we lose grace. This is why we call anxiety a gate to sin.

The biggest requirement for us to be saved from this kind of anxiety is to believe. "But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you" (Matthew 6:33). Nothing is as relaxing as knowing God rightly. From this point of view, the problem is simple. The solution is in our hands. God is the one who created everything and guides us every second and every minute of our life, because there is no one else but him, we should surrender everything to God. In all our worries, God is the only one who knows our problem, our pain, our suffering, our anxiety, our sickness of the soul and the flesh in a clear, confirmed condition. Only God has the key to heaven for all of us. We have to believe this. "For He cares about you, cast all your worries on Him." (1 Peter 5:7)

Saul, the first king of Israel, was troubled with anxiety. The spirit of worry used to make his life a battleground. In fact, the boy David called God's name in front of him and arranged a harp for him. At that time, the spirit that disturbed and did not bother him was patient, so he breathed the air of peace. Even today, when we hear the word of God, when we hear hymns, liturgy or praise, it means that our hearts are filled with joy. He says that the spirit tormenting Saul was patient with him when he sang the name of God with the harp and harp, and when he arranged the harp for him while calling the name of God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:579 | date:2023-02-12T20:31:04 ---
👉🏾 About #marriage

👉 Question #1: What is the basic purpose of marriage?

👉 Question #2: Is there a difference between getting married in the Holy Communion and getting married in a secular marriage system?

✍Answer ፦  The Christian way of life is twofold. One is through holy matrimony and the other is living in monasticism. Both require cleanliness. This means the virginity of the body and the purity of repentance. Since this lesson is about marriage as mentioned in the question , we will focus on the direction of salvation in marriage.  Let's look at the meaning and purpose of marriage below:

Marriage: Marriage is a wonderful mystery in which the union of the bridegroom and the bride takes place. This union though marriage is celebrated by a ceremony that takes place in the church with a sacrament which marks the joining, uniting, oneness of the couple.. "A man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh" (Mathew 19:5). Therefore, marriage is a great mystery in which he and she will not think of anyone for love other than each other. From the day of the marriage, they will have children, share property, and live as long as God allows them.

Marriage is established mainly based on 3 purposes (pillars); These are 1. to help each other, 2. to have a childreen, 3. to be saved from adultery. The goal is to live and walk the path of righteousness as a one heart, one word, in complete unity, and togetherness.  

1. Helping each other: "The Lord God said: It is not good for man to be alone. Let us create a suitable helper for him" (Genesis 2:18). Spiritual marriage is a gift that helps us in the Christian journey of life. In general, the mainstay of marriage is the genuine affection and love between the spouses. "The two will become one flesh" (Matthew 19.5). According to this divine word, both spouses put the needs of their spouse before their own, caring for each other, and honoring God.

2. To have children (to continue generations): "God blessed them and said to them, multiply and fill the earth and subdue it..." (Genesis 1:28) God did not leave us to live without law and order; He said to multiply after He blessed Adam and Eve in Paradise. If He blessed them, it means that He liked the marriage, that is, their union and unity. This also refers to legal marriage. He was present in heaven then and blessed their marriage, and today He is present to bless our marriage in the holy church where his holy body and precious blood were poured out.

3. To be saved from adultery: "For the danger of adultery, let each man have his own wife, and let each women have her own husband" (Cor 7:2); If a person does not live bound by a holy marriage, it is inevitable that he will be tempted by lustful flesh. When we live in religion, it is important to stay away from adultery, so marriage is one way to overcome this temptation.
Based on these three main goals, the goal of marriage is to walk together in a righteous way and gain eternal life and inherit the kingdom of heaven. 

Therefore, since Orthodox married life is a life lived in a spiritual system, it means that the covenant marriage system should be started in the Christian system in the church. This is a ritual of the church that is done with a gift or sacrament.

The difference between sacramental marriage and secular marriage

There are three parts to a sacramental marriage; The couple and God! Without any of these, it is not considered a marriage. This is the mystery in which our flesh becomes flesh and our bones become bones in the Holy Eucharist. “This bone is of my bone; It is through the Holy Communion that God's statement that "the flesh is my flesh" becomes a reality. As it is written, "They will both become one flesh" during the holy marriage ceremony, the conclusion of the great secret of the two bodies becoming physical unity and spiritual unity is the Holy Body and His Precious Blood of Christ. (Mark 10:8).

(to be continued )👇

--- id:580 | date:2023-02-12T20:33:02 ---
(continued part)👆👇

Therefore, the reason why we make our marriage to be a sacrament in the church is that our Lord Jesus Christ can be the head and center of our spiritual efforts in our married life. St. Paul said, "This mystery is great; But I say this about Christ and the Church" (Eph 5:32) because it is a sign of union between the divine and the flesh. All this is possible only when we receive invisible grace through visible service and live in spiritual discipline and conduct to the best of our ability. 

In general, the Holy Communion is what makes our marriage real and transforms us into a new body and we become one flesh. But in a worldly marriage system that is different from this, there is no salvation and blessing because it is a wedding in which Christ is not celebrated. In addition, the mystery of the bride and groom becoming one will not be fulfilled, and even after marriage, these couples cannot be called one but two. Moreover, by not doing this, they will lose the blessing and grace that they could have received. 

However, as it is said, "My people have perished for lack of knowledge" (Hosea 4:6), perhaps the believers, unknowingly or knowingly, walking on the path of destruction, if there are those who have performed their marriage in a worldly system, they can repent and be united in the Holy Communion and begin their righteous journey for the rest of their days.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:586 | date:2023-02-13T20:34:29 ---


--- id:587 | date:2023-02-13T20:34:29 ---


--- id:588 | date:2023-02-13T20:34:29 ---


--- id:589 | date:2023-02-13T20:34:39 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Five #Pillar #Mysteries

(Part 11)

5. Mystery of Resurrection of (from) the dead

Resurrection refers to the re-uniting of soul and body at the end of ages. It is the return of all the dead in to life at the end of the world. It marks the start of eternal ‘life’ after the second coming of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. Resurrection also denotes the final removal of the consequences of Adam’s sin (human disobedience). This mystery represents all what is at stake in our spiritual journey on earth. We believe in the authentic apostolic Gospel to be genuine candidates of the Kingdom of God, which would be revealed at the end of the ages. We take part in sacramental rituals implementing two among the five pillars of mysteries (Mystery of Baptism and Mystery of Holy Eucharist) for the same reason. The essence of Christianity is the life we have after death. We don’t dare to sacrifice our everlasting life in heaven for “a moment of happiness” on earth which transgresses God’s commandments. We believe and proclaim that all the dead humans will rise up for glory or demise. We believe the way we do and perform good deeds to be genuine candidates of God’s grace for a glorious resurrection.

So, when a person dies, he faces two opportunities of places where he lives with soul, and we decide one of the two when we are still alive before we die. This means that if we do righteous deeds, we will go to paradise. If we sin, we go to hell. So first, until the second coming, if a person is a sinner, his soul will go to hell, and if his deeds are good, he will go to paradise. After the second coming, the soul of the righteous will be sent to the kingdom of heaven, and the soul of the sinner will be sent to the fire of hell.

The second coming of Jesus Christ will be as lightning as it’s said: “For as lightning that comes from the east is visible even in the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.” (Matthew 24:27). He will be seen with great power and authority: “They will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of the sky, with power and great glory” (Matthew 24:30-31). “For the Son of Man is going to come in his Father’s glory with his angels, and then he will reward each person according to what he has done” ((Matthew 16:27 Luke 17:28-30 Luke 21:34-36 Matthew 25:1-12 Luke 12:37-38 John 14:1-3 Luke 12:40 Mark 8:38).

The lord said “For as the lightening cometh out of the east, and shines even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.” (Mathew 24:27) Church scholars rightly note that the moment of our physical death on earth, even before judgement day, is our “final day”. We don’t have the chance to have the faith and deeds for salvation after departure. Hence, our final day is our judgement day and there is no point to speculate about the “final day of the world” while our final day comes without being noticed.

Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ was crucified and died to save the human race in order to bring us back to our original inheritance in heaven.  Paradise is a place of temporary happiness where the righteous will stay.

(Part 12 Continues)👇

--- id:590 | date:2023-02-13T20:36:01 ---
The Five Pillars Mysteries

(Part 12)

5. Mystery of Resurrection of (from) the dead (Con'd)

On Friday, while our Lord was being crucified, the thief on the right, Fyatawi Zeyman, saw our Lord performing 3 miracles in heaven and 4 on earth, and believed that He was truly God. And he said to our Lord, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom; Luke 23:42. Our Lord said, "Verily I say unto thee, To day thou shalt be with me in paradise." Luke 23:43 The gate of heaven, which was closed for five thousand five hundred years (5500), was opened for the mortal Zeyman. Therefore, this is a proof that it is heaven where we rest in the soul.

What makes our fathers' life special  is that they examined themselves without wasting the time of salvation that was given to them, repented and became the heirs of God's kingdom. The benefits of mystical penance are measured from this point of view because the grace of the Holy Spirit, which is enough to fulfill all the mysteries, is obtained through repentance. Another  example is the story of the lost son in Luke 15, who was able to return to his father's house after he repented, is an example of this. Before it is too late for us, may His holy will allow us to repent of our sins and make us heirs to His kingdom. "Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth" Ecclesiastes 12:1

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:592 | date:2023-02-14T20:30:51 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Betrothal

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance website; Based on the title mentioned in above, we have sent you the following important lesson, so we entrust you to read and learn from it.

Betrothal/Engagement:- means choosing, preparing. Betrothal is a time of togetherness between the two couples before marriage, and it is a time of hope leading to marriage.

Engagement

Engagement is a journey of purpose, courtship, and preparation that you embark on together for a successful marriage life. This is a way for us to start with consent; and wait for the holy marriage and the blessings it will bring us to a great chapter of responsibility. Thus, since betrothal is not a permanent relationship or marriage, matters that happen after marriage should not be done during betrothal. Instead, it is a time to gather our scattered conscience and help each other with a holy purpose.

Things To Do during Engagement

- Religious Unity: Since religion is the primary issue in the life of a Christian betrothed; and most importantly, since marriage is a journey to salvation, religious unity should be the main selection criterion.

- Staying Virgin - Betrothal with virginity and virginity with betrothal have an inseparable basic combination. The Orthodox Church emphatically teaches that both men and women have a Christian responsibility to maintain chastity until the day of their marriage, and in other word, it is a sin to lose virginity before marriage.

- Pray - Praying and asking for God's will to be worthy of holy marriage

- Not extending the engagement period - Unless there is a special reason, it is preferable that it is not less than six months and not more than two years.

   - Getting married in the church system : agreeing to perform their marriage in the church system based on one intention and purpose; Apart from this, if both or one of them are not on the same path, having different thoughts and objectives, their destination will be different. Besides, marriage is not a way of abandoning, but a path of righteousness where you walk together with each other and support each other. Moreover , the covenant of marriage is said to be valid when its basis is confirmed by the sacraments in the true Church order. it is the secret of coming to unity from duality. Otherwise, they will be called two, not one.

- Trust - If we face the interference and rumors of friends and third parties , instead of fighting, it is better to carefully investigate and openly discuss and come to a common position to save our relationship. The secret to a long marriage is tolerance and open communication.

- Courtship - that is, narrowing down the differences of opinion or thinking between them, bringing them to a common point of view, correcting if there are ethical deficiencies, and facilitating the conditions for filling religious deficiencies with the fathers of the Church.

- Christian Morality - Emphasizing love, forgiveness, patience, honesty, compassion, respect, and humility. A person who feels responsible is of great importance to our continued life together; In addition, there should be mutual goals based on future interests and balanced love and affection on both sides. Not only do we expect these Christian behaviors from our fiancee, but they are values that we should practice together, not by blaming, but by showing compassion.

- Economy - establishing the ability to overcome daily life mutually; 

- Relative: Confirming that there is no marriage relationship and spiritual relationship between their close relatives

- Father of penitence: meeting the father of penitence regularly and being helped by education, advice and prayer.


(Part 2 continues )👇

--- id:593 | date:2023-02-14T20:45:03 ---
About Betrothal

(Part 2)👆👇

- Gathering concious and abstinence - After accepting eachother and making a promise, they are expected to focus on their weeding program and future marriage life. In doing so, it is recomended to be at public place instead of private place; as  others will monitor them so they won't fall in adultery. Also, except giving spiritual greetings, lip-to-lip kissing is not allowed as it is a type of adultery.

Instead of kissing, true love can be expressed trough helping each other in thought and action, respect, trust and appreciation. Also, supporting each other in their spiritual lives, going to church regularly, receiving Holy Communion individually, and waiting for their wedding day with purity.

In general, if we notice the positive criteria we have seen above in our partner during our courtship, we will live the life we have imagined. On the other hand, if it is not as we thought or if it is out of balance, without wasting more time, we quickly get it out of our hearts and look for someone else who is worthy of us. For this, we put our hope in God and believe and study patiently until he gives us the person he has prepared for us. But here, we must try to have all the standard points that we want to see in that person.

Things Not to Do During Engagement

- Living together often and not spending the night together - being together in a place where there is no one or no one is exposed to temptation and exposure.

- Avoid excessive play and talk - It is necessary to be careful not to engage in excessive talk and play, i.e. flirting and stimulating physical feelings and unnecessary kissing and flirting. "The eve of fornication is the eve of adultery, and the eve of adultery is a joke and mockery."

- Sex is prohibited during courtship. Because 1) According to the Church, pre-marital circumcision is adultery; 2) Because betrothal is not marriage, 3) Because betrothal is a journey and not a destination, 4) Because it is premature loss of virginity, 5) Because accidental pregnancy disrupts the goals of life, 6) Because it causes other great sins such as abortion and stillbirth, in the future marriage, 7) Because it deprives a partner and the dignity and happiness of marriage,

- Incorrect measurement. Not being bound by wealth, beauty, fame and favors, or being driven by emotions; Since marriage covers three-fourths of our life, we should not be subject to our mind, but to our emotions.

-   Swearing: Betrothal is a promise. Because hope may or may not be fulfilled, it is a complete mistake to be convinced that denial is impossible i.e do not swear.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:602 | date:2023-02-15T20:31:07 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Paradise and the #tree of #knowledge:

👉Question: - Where is/was the garden or Eden? What is the tree/fruit that they ate?

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance website; Based on the question mentioned in above, we have sent you the following reply lesson, so we entrust you to read and learn from it.

✍Answer: Paradise, as we understand from its name, means a place that is unique, pleasant and satisfying to the spirit, restful, special, and naturally blessed with unique natural grace. This is what we call Paradise, and  it was given to Adam to inherit.
 
Today, when we see a place where plants and birds abound, where the whole earth is full of flowers,  we are amazed and we call the place a "Paradise". 
 
When God gave Paradise to our father Adam and our mother Eve, there was no suffering, no pain, no hunger and thirst for water, no going up and down, no tiredness in work; They lived happily for a thousand years, and if they were lucky, after a thousand years, God renewed their nature, and they would have lived for a thousand years.
 
In the midst of that, after God appointed them to rule over everything, to lead, to enjoy everything, without depriving them of anything except from the tree of knowledge which was in the middle of Paradise. So, when we think about heaven or the tree of knowledge, what we ask should not be  research questions like what kind of wood is it? Where did it grow? or What does it look like? Our dear member, Paradise is an independent, holy land or world. Apart from this, it is not Religion to think about how far Paradise is from this earth by the measure of holy angels, or how far it is from this world we live in.

In Noah's time, the ark was given to Noah until the flood passes or dries up, so that Noah would not be destroyed by the flood. The ship being on Mount Ararat, there was something that the scholars or the fathers fathers have researched about how close the ship's direction indicator was to heaven. 
 
Because it is the Holy Spirit who explains everything to them, our fathers have documented it's direction and distance from this world. If you, our inquirer, have in-depth knowledge of religion or holy books and have asked for research, contact us at our address and we will discuss it in detail.
 
But with such a question, since not everyone has the same spiritual knowledge, it is better to explain it as a generalization  that in paradise  our father Adam and our mother Eve glorified it as a child, and God's grace was abundant for them. Today, it is known how much pain and suffering we go through to get what we need for food, but it was not like that for them. In that paradise, God made Adam the king and made all the animals to live in subjection to him, that is what we call paradise. But then the grace of childhood that Adam received from God was stripped/taken away from him due to sin he committed, he was expelled from Paradise and its door was closed to him.
 
God ordered him to inform them that God is the creator and Adam is a creature, that there is a ruler and a subject, and that he is a creature that lives in law and order. He said, "Don't eat this, you will die." This is a law, an order. It was forbidden to eat from that tree because its nature brought death to Adam. Just as we are accused of breaking the law by doing what we are forbidden to do, we will be destroyed, if we become law breakers, 

(Continues )👇

--- id:603 | date:2023-02-15T20:33:01 ---
(continued)👆👇

It was not the tree of knowledge that caused Adam's death, but because he broke the commandment. Therefore, the secret of the rebellion is breaking God's word to Adam that he should not eat, because God's word is true. And that tree is God's creation, and God's word will come true so it brought death, not life, it brought shame not honor; It means that he was stripped from his spiritual grace, the grace of the Holy Spirit. That is what we should know.
 
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:605 | date:2023-02-16T20:31:13 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 what is #fornication? What are it's causes and it's kinds? What about the solution to get out of this #sin?

Dear members of John's Repentance service, In order to provide you with the answers to all the previous questions regarding adultery, we have sent "part one" as follows, and we will send the rest of the parts in the following days, so please stay tuned!

 Section 1

 👉👉👉Question #1: What is adultery and why is it a major sin

Sexual intercourse that is not between a husband and a wife, meaning that is outside of marriage, which is fornication, is called adultery. But the intercourse committed by a couple who is legally married is not fornication, not adultery.

Adultery is one of the main sins that God hates and despises.  That is why our enemy, Satan, the devil, in order to make us fall apart from the Creator and deprive us of our sacred sonship, forcibly puts us into his trap and pushes us to execute and practice/normalize this hateful sin. Therefore, it is important to understand that the main function of adultery is to replace the law of God with the law of the devil, which means to replace our eternal life with eternal death. Like a dead person was with us yesterday and is not by our side today, a person who commits adultery is taken by death. 

When people collaborate in sin, the destruction is brought not only to oneself, but also to the country and the earth. As we know, the main sins of the people of Noah's days were fornication and adultery. Because of those who have no law, who jump as they please without a bridle, who had generally thrown away all their beingness and out of the sin of man, the earth and all the creatures on the earth have perished in the punishment of the burning plague and wrath sent from God. The main cause of this scourge was the sin of adultery.

👉👉👉Question #2: What are the types of adultery?

 1. To pour seed upon the earth, burning with carnal lust and passion; (Genesis 38:6-11)
 2. Sexual relations with the earth and/or stones (Leviticus 20:15)
 3. Sexual relations with plants and with animals (Leviticus 20:15)
 4. Sexual relations with our relatives who are close to us in the flesh; (Leviticus 18:6 and 17)
 5. Man with man;  (Genesis 19:9) (Genesis 19:22)
 6. Woman to woman;  (Leviticus 20:15)
 7. Adultery committed by a woman and a man who is outside of the marriage (Leviticus 23:17)
 8. With oneself);  (1 Cor 6:18)
 9. Indulging in drinking, materialism, and other carnal thoughts;  (1 Cor 6:13)
 10. Idolship;  (Acts 21:25)
 11. It is also adultery to coveting food, a brother, his wealth, his strength, his wife 

In this day and age, which type of adultery is tempting everyone from the youth to the old?  Unable to bear the sensuality and burning with the idea of ​​adultery, men and women behind closed doors tempt and/or satisfy themselves, pouring their seeds. This is called adultery with oneself. This type of fornication is outside the natural order, so it is a greater sin than those who commit physical fornication. In fact, the idea of ​​homosexuality starts from this and thus it is connected with the spirit of homosexuality. Fornication with oneself, man with man, woman with woman... it is even hard to speak and say the terms. This type of sin is a new philosophy of sin brought by people who are led by the spirit of Satan. Unfortunately, many beginning from young age are falling and under temptation of this, knowingly or unknowingly.

 👉👉👉Question #3: What is the cause of falling into adultery?

The thing is, after we boldly commit all these sins by thinking of the temporary benefits and feelings we get for our flesh, the excuses we give is saying that Satan misled us. But Satan, whom we hold responsible, has never, and will never, take accountability. Indeed, Satan sees our desire and pushes us to execute his desire by exploiting our weaknesses.

(Continues )👇

--- id:606 | date:2023-02-16T20:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

The causes of fornication and the eves of adultery are mostly kissing between a woman and a man outside of legal marriage, passionately touching each other, sleeping together, watching or reading pornographic movies and the Internet, talking too much about this matter, giving conscience and focus to related activities. This is when the flesh leads him to the thought of adultery, he keeps playing and practicing the idea secretly in his mind, and when it gets out of control, he falls into the original sin of adultery.

 👉👉👉Question # 4: What should we do to get out of the danger of adultery?

This is a wake-up call that contains the voice of God, supported by biblical evidence, about the dangers of all forms of adultery and the damage they can cause to our social life and our souls. This text should wake us up from the deep adultery sin that we have fallen into and get away to never go back to it again. Basically, many of us say we don't know how to get out when the exit door is closed to us because it is our inner desire and we think that it will bring us happiness, even temporarily. We give it more importance than food and think that we will not live if we leave it. But if we are determined with a purpose and control our emotions and do not do this adultery, we will not die or get injured. If a person is determined and perseveres for his purpose on this earth, he decides to honor his people and country and gives his chest and forehead to die on the battlefield, let alone fight his fleeting physical feelings that only last for a few minutes. We don't have to fight or die in the battle against adultery. The secret is that the spirit of fornication is a battle of the evil spirit that fights us abstractly with our intangible and invisible inner thoughts. So, how can we fail to fight and win with the guidance of our fathers and the spiritual weapons given to us by God? Christians, don't give Satan a place!  Although the development of our spiritual life, the type of our sins, and the amount of our sins are different from each of us, the main thing is that we strive to improve our spiritual life step by step without stopping to carry out the solutions listed below and God will help us. 

(Continued)👇

--- id:607 | date:2023-02-16T20:36:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

In general, all the members of John's Repentance website;  Righteousness and a broken heart cannot be measured by talking too much, learning too much, teaching too much, reading too much, or mumbling too much. It is true that the more we learn, the more we do, the more we believe, the more our righteousness increases. But for those who do not believe and do not return, even if we pour our countless advice and teachings on them, they will spend their lives clinging to their enemy, Satan, and wasting their time and ages. But if a person is counseled and listens to God's voice and returns, we are sure that he will move from eternal death to eternal life because he has a heart that listens to what is being told to him in short, little by little. For example, even through the teaching and advice that we convey through this service, with GOD's help, many people have told us that they got out of this kind of sin and reached to the Holy Communion. Praise be to God. This happened because the intercession of our Lady and the intercession and prayers of the righteous martyrs helped us. So all of you who have heard this alarm bell, since the day of salvation is now, we offer our advice by saying that without extending the appointment date and time, return to the forgiving God in repentance. A person who commits a sin and does not receive the treatment of repentance is dead in his soul (Luke 15:24). Finally, if you want us to give you more education and spiritual advice, if you don't have a father of repentance, we have chosen fathers of the church who are trusted in their religion and knowledge, we are readily available to connect wit you. 

 👉👉👉Question #5 What are the solutions and spiritual tools to get rid of adultery?

Repentance

The first and only solution for people who have fallen into the sin of adultery is to repent. Repentance will make the sinner righteous and the adulterer a virgin. When we get sick we go to a doctor and get medical care and follow-up. Just like that, since the spirit of adultery is deadly not only in the flesh but also in our souls, to get out of it:

 1) We should have a heart willing to be saved and a sincere repentance for the sin of adultery we have committed, like the leper. The foundation and main requirement for true repentance is when our conscience admits and repents of the wrong we have done.

 2) We need a good penitent father who is a doctor for our souls, who gives us the medicine called canon according to the type and extent of our illness, and regularly monitors us until we are completely cured, heals and advises us. “And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven;  Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." (Mathew 16᎓19). Therefore, repenting and having a confession father is not a command of man, but an instruction of the Creator.

 3) We must take the right remedy called repentance that God has commanded us through our confession father, and we must carry out the canons given to us properly. Even though we have been committing sins for centuries, the righteousness that we have done in a short time of the canon will wipe out all that innumerable destruction and help to enter the kingdom of heaven.

 4) After repenting and fulfilling our canon, we have passed from eternal death to eternal life. So that we don't fall into the sin again, the healing medicines or our spiritual weapons are fasting more, praying more, and prostrating more. Although each of them has a wide range of lessons, we have briefly explained it as follows, thinking that the more we do these, the less we understand the concept behind them and their significance. The main thing is that the type of adultery is different for each one of us, and we should examine our how and why we are tempted and apply the general remedies accordingly and speficifically.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:608 | date:2023-02-17T20:50:14 ---
(Continued) 👇

5) Regarding prayer, if we have time apart from The Daily Prayer and Praise of Mary, which we pray in the morning and at night, we should have a prayer that we pray on a regular basis according to the level of our spiritual knowledge. For example, you can read and pray the Psalms, Homily of Archangel Michael, John's Gospel, Homilies, other prayer books and books on repentance.

 6) Concerning prostration, it is possible to fight evil spirits by prostrating more. When we prostrate, we should put a cross or holy pictures or the gospel in front of us while crossing our bodies in the sign of the holy cross, with our knees and foreheads touching the ground.

7) If we surround our spaces, our room, in our house, and around our bed with the cross, it can be a shield that prevents demons from approaching. The demons will be completely destroyed because it weakens their power, burn them, and they will not be able to approach this holy place. Prayer is a fence, the cross is a fence, the holy books and our prayer books are a fence.

8) Mainly as Christians,  we must not despair! Don't give up!!!  The enemy, the devil, will try to pull us back again by giving us no rest in order that we don't escape from his hands. In fact, we should say, giving spiritual praise or singing testimony, "I have truly defeated my enemy, the evil spirit, and with this, I know that God the Holy Spirit is with me; God is my shield and protection, no one will defeat me", not despair and delay our salvation. As God told us through the Prophet, He says: I do not like the death of the sinner, but that he returns to Me.  Therefore, God will bear with us even with our sins. He is not patient with us so that our duration of sin is prolonged but gives us time to repent. Even though he hates the sin of fornication that we have entered into, God is waiting for us to listen to His word and return in repentance. So, how can we give up hope?

(Continues) 👇

--- id:609 | date:2023-02-17T20:52:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

Therefore, with this alarm bell that GOD is trying to wake us up, we have to start our struggle to get out of this sin and continue until the end. Therefore, by increasing all the above-mentioned spiritual fight step by step, even if we fail once, even if we fail again and again, we stand up in repentance, and when we apply the constant struggle and advice given to us by our confession father, our sincere decision to hate and reject the sin will really grow in the process, so the spirit itself will burn and separate from us once and for all. 

9) Other spiritually aiding advices: Praying, going to church, sprinkling with holy water, baptizing in the hands of the fathers with holy waters sprung (tsebel) by the creator in the name of God and the name of the saints, being blessed by the cross, anointing the (imnet), drinking the holy water, consulting with the fathers for a certain period of time, staying away from carnal life and staying in spiritual service for a limited time upon advices from spiritual fathers, reading various church books as well as listening to religious and spiritual lessons and hymns prepared in audio or video. At this time, the evil spirit that has settled on that person loses what is compatible with his character and is burned by God's word, so he leaves the person sick with adultery. Our Holy Church and our Holy Fathers have been given this great power of the Holy Spirit, so it is their usual work to perform various miracles, so we must get the necessary services and understand them through their prayers.

 👉👉👉Question #6: Is kissing before marriage adultery?

The act of fornication is first defined by a kiss. In general, whether it is the kissing  or passionate caressing of a woman and a man outside of marriage, it is the cause of adultery and the eve of adultery.  Therefore, when we lose control of ourselves and keep adding these acts to it, the main sin of fornication (sexual intercourse) will come so we would be questioned by GOD about it. Basically, the greeting that we teach in the church and exchange with good will is a Christian greeting that replaces kissing. Because any Christian who is self-controlled and lives with his conscience, his kissing whether with his spouse or with other people, which expresses true love and longing, is a system of greetings that is not embarrassing and true greetings, whether in front of people, in front of God, or in front of the congregation. Therefore, the idea of ​​kissing before marriage or during marriage is not compatible with good morals.

 👉👉👉Question #7: Is it adultery if we spend the night together with one person before marriage?

 It is important to understand that any sexual intercourse outside of marriage is considered a sin of adultery.  The Church does not allow a man and a woman who are betrothed by covenant or engaged to have any relationship before marriage. Even if they do it of their own free will, it is a sin that requires repentance.

In general, whether it is the kissing of a woman and a man outside of marriage, whether it is passionate caressing, or it is the cause of adultery and the eve of adultery. Therefore, when we lose control of ourselves and add these acts to it, the main sin of fornication is the act of eating meat. However, a man and a woman who are bound by a covenant or engaged before marriage and have been waiting their wedding day without having any kind of intercourse, all their intercourse after their marriage is sacred to God and recognized by the community. They commit GOD's order instead of adultery and their life believed to be legal and orderly in the eyes of GOD.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:610 | date:2023-02-17T20:57:38 ---
(Continued) 👆

👉👉👉 Question #8: How does one say when he repents if he goes out with ten women or men? Is it in detail or in general, only saying that he has committed adultery?

 Our questioner, although adultery is called adultery by its name, when it is defined by its work or sin, not only it is a very high type of sin, the number and level of the sin also varies.  For example, there is a difference in the sin between committing adultery with one person and committing adultery with many people. Therefore, if we are not ashamed to commit the sin, there is nothing to be ashamed of telling the priest that we have committed the sin of adultery with many people. It is important to list the types of adultery that we have committed for our confession father who we trust after God. This is because there is a canon that is given to us according to the amount and type of the sin of adultery that we have committed.

 ####
 👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 To read our lesson about adultery and to get answers to the questions listed above, click on this link: https://yohannesneseha.org/questions/questions/about-adultery

It increases our immunity and all our grace, and the spirit of fornication that is battling with us in subtle will surely be learned and burned, and it will stop fighting and separate from us.  (Ephesians 6:11-18)

May God give us a heart of repentance. 

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:616 | date:2023-02-18T20:54:26 ---


--- id:617 | date:2023-02-18T20:54:26 ---


--- id:618 | date:2023-02-18T20:54:26 ---


--- id:619 | date:2023-02-18T20:54:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Preparing for the #great #lent 

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about the great lent by Bishop Serapion of the Coptic Orthodox Church so you may read and understand to get the blessings of this fast. 

Great Lent is considered the holiest fast since our Lord Jesus Christ Himself had fasted it.
Therefore, during Great Lent we follow the example set by our Lord Jesus Christ, Who fasted on our behalf forty days and forty nights (Matt. 4: 2). Also during Holy Week, which comes after the 40 days, we live the Passion of Christ day-by-day and hour-by-hour. Because of the significance and holiness of Great Lent, the Church designated a week of preparation to precede the 40 days. The Church is teaching us to prepare for Great Lent in a spiritual manner. We fast to prepare ourselves for the 40 holy days. In fact, the preparatory week is not the only fast which the Church designated to get us ready for Great Lent and Holy Week. Two weeks prior to Great Lent there is Jonah’s Fast, also known as Nineveh’s Fast. It is a short fast, only three days, and it is a fast of repentance. During this fast, we live with Jonah his fasting and repentance in the whale’s belly. We also live with the Ninevites their fasting and repentance. Just as the fasting accompanied by repentance saved Jonah and the Ninevites from perdition, also our fasting accompanied by repentance will save us from eternal destruction and death due to sin. Great Lent is an Apostolic Fast:

It is mentioned in the Didskalia (chapter 18) the following: "Great Lent should be honored before Holy Week. It starts on the Monday following the Saturday and is completed on the Friday preceding Holy Week. After it, you must pay great attention to Holy Week and fast it with fear and piety." In Canon 69 from the Canons of our Fathers the Apostles, the following is mentioned: "Any bishop, priest, deacon, reader, or chanter who does not fast Great Lent or Wednesdays and Fridays shall be excommunicated, unless he has a physical ailment. As for a lay person, he shall be excluded."

Great Lent is an Ascetical Fast:
The Church teaches us to fast until sunset. Fish is not allowed during this period. Also married couples should refrain from physical relations to give themselves time for fasting and prayer (1 Cor. 7: 5). We would like to emphasize the importance of the period of strict abstention during fasting. It is refraining from eating and drinking for a period of time, followed by eating vegetarian food.

Some people practice fasting by abstaining from meat and they eat vegetarian food, disregarding the period of strict abstention. These people should actually be regarded as vegetarians and not as fasting. A vegetarian eats only vegetarian food, but is not considered a fasting person. True fasting must be accompanied by abstention from food and drink until sunset as designated by the Church. However, due to variations in people’s physical and spiritual abilities, the Church gave the father of confession the authority to designate to his children the length of their strict abstinence. He determines what is suitable for their spiritual benefit according to the nature of their work, as well as their physical ability to endure fasting.

Great Lent is a Period of Prayer:
The period of Great Lent is distinctive for its many Liturgies. They become the spiritual treasure for the fasting person to help him throughout the rest of the year. In addition to the Divine Liturgy on Sundays, which have specific readings, hymns, and tunes, the Church also arranged special readings for the daily Liturgies during Great Lent. Also, during the weekdays, there are special hymns.
The Church celebrates the Divine Liturgy almost daily during Great Lent. It is preferred that these Liturgies start late in the day to offer those fasting the opportunity to practice strict abstinence.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:620 | date:2023-02-18T20:54:46 ---
(Continued) 👆

It is not permitted to have the Divine Liturgy on weekdays early in the morning, since we pray the hours until the Compline Prayer. How can we pray the psalms of the Complin Prayer at 5:00 A.M.? Also, having an early morning Liturgy means there will not be abstention from food, since we can not abstain from food following the Divine Liturgy.

The proper time to end the Divine Liturgy during the weekdays of Great Lent is at sunset. Due to the inability of the elderly and the sick, it is permitted to have it end earlier, but not before noon. That way everyone may receive the blessing of Holy Communion, while benefiting from abstention. We hope that the fathers of confession will take great care in guiding their children as to the importance of strict abstinence and how to struggle to keep it for as long as they can.

Great Lent is a Period of Repentance:

Fasting without repentance and changing one’s life becomes useless. Unless the fasting person changes his life during fasting, he will only be hungry and exhausted without gaining anything else. Therefore, the Church constantly reminds us of the importance of repentance during fasting. Before Great Lent, we fast Jonah’s Fast and we live the story of Jonah and the Ninevites’ repentance. During the third Sunday of Lent, the Holy Church offers us the Gospel reading of the Prodigal Son as a model of repentance, which requires an awakening, confession of sins, leaving the place of sin, and returning to the Heavenly Father with confidence in His mercies and acceptance. This parable reveals to us the depth of God’s love for sinners and how He accepts them no matter how horrendous their sin is. Our Lord Jesus Christ said, "the one who comes to Me I will by no means cast out." (John 6: 37) Christ "has come to save that which was lost." (Matt. 18:11) God desires that all men be saved and come to the knowledge of truth (1Tim. 2:4). Christ is the True Physician who is needed by those who are ill by sin. He did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance (Mark 2: 17). Repentance is a result of divine action; it is the Spirit of God, Who moves the hearts of sinners to repent.

It is written in the Holy Bible, "For it is God who works in you both to will and do for His good pleasure." (Phil. 2: 13) God’s pleasure is in the return of a sinner so that he will not die in his sin. When God sees his sinful child returning to Him, He has compassion and goes to him, kissing him, and welcomes his return by saying, "It is right that we should make merry and be glad." (Luke 15: 32) The return of a sinner and his repentance results in joy to God, as well as all those in heaven, because, "there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine just persons who need no repentance." (Luke 15: 7)

During Great Lent, we praise God for His many mercies. The Doxology of Great Lent presents to us a magnificent hymn in praising God on His mercies, as well as asking for His mercies. The first Doxology of the Sundays of Great Lent starts with the following:

I will praise you, O Lord, for your mercies are forever. From generation to generation, my mouth shall declare Your truth.

In this beautiful doxology, we praise God for His mercies. Then the chanter remembers his many sins and transgressions by saying, " My sins are heavy over my head." As his sins are revealed in front of him, he then remembers the stories of those who repented and were accepted by God, so he won’t lose hope. Therefore, he remembers the publican, the adulteress, and the thief and asks God to make him like any one of them.

Again, he recalls God’s attributes by saying, "I know You are good, kind and merciful. Remember me in Your mercy forever." God does not wish the death of a sinner but that he should return and live. Then the chanter remembers his sins once again and says: “I have sinned, O Jesus, my Lord, I have sinned, O Jesus, my God, O my King, do not count the sins I have committed.”

(Continues)👇

--- id:621 | date:2023-02-18T20:54:46 ---
(Continued) 👆

He asks for God’s mercies and not to be punished like Sodom and Gomorrah, but to have mercy on him like the Ninevites. The chanter ends his praise by saying: “But absolve and forgive My many transgressions As good and lover of mankind Have mercy on us according to Your great mercy.”

This doxology is beautiful poetry, through which the human soul expresses her feelings resulting from the heaviness of her sins. At the same time, she shows her great hope in our kind and merciful Lord, Who is happy with the return and repentance of the sinner. Yet, He punishes the unrepentant sinners. Therefore, repentance is the means by which we enjoy God’s great mercies.

Great Lent is a Period for Doing Mercy:

The Church reminds us of the importance of doing merciful acts during fasting. Therefore, during Great Lent we chant together praising those who have mercy on the poor. The Holy Bible teaches us that the fasting which is accepted by God is the one in which we do acts of mercy to others. "Is this not the fast that I have chosen: to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and that you break every yoke? Is it not to share your bread with the hungry, and that you bring to your house the poor who are cast out; when you see the naked, that you cover him, and not hide yourself from you own flesh?"

Fasting is a beautiful period to do good deeds by helping the poor, feeding the hungry, visiting the sick, and taking care of the needs of others. The person who fasts by not yielding to the needs of the flesh, will feel the needs of others and his heart will be moved to serve them. Also, the asceticism of fasting teaches us to care for the heavenly and not be concerned with the earthly. Thus it becomes easy to forsake our material possessions and offer them to the needy.

Great Lent is a Period of Reconciliation with Others:

Fasting is an act of worship presented to God, and God does not accept the offering and worship of a person who quarrels with others. Instead, He asks him to go and make peace with his brother before coming to worship and present offerings in front of God’ altar. Fasting is an appropriate time to evaluate our relationship with others. As we ask God to forgive us our sins, we must also forgive those who have sinned against us.

May God grant us a blessed fast by which we can grow in a life of prayer, asceticism, and repentance. May we always increase in doing acts of mercy and living in peace with one another.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:622 | date:2023-02-19T20:31:15 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About a #Father of #Repentance and his Responsibility 

👉Question: What does the father of repentance mean? What is expected of a repentant father? What about his authority?
 
All our beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the website of John's Repentance; Based on the above-mentioned question, we have sent you an important lesson that will help you to lead your spiritual life with knowledge, and to constantly grow under the guidance of a repentant father  by getting the appropriate service from them, and we entrust you all to read and use it.
 
✍Answer: A Father of penitence is one's closest advisor in spiritual and physical life. In Sirac 6-6, it says: "Let many people be your friends, and let one of many be your counsel, and let your counsel be one with your heart." This means that although the believers may have many priests to teach them about religion and morals, one of them should be the teacher to whom they confess their repentance.
 
The Father of pennance is to whom we confess our sins. When we confess our sins to the priest, we are confessing and honoring God. As Joshua said, "My son, give, I pray thee, glory to the LORD God of Israel, and make confession unto him; and tell me now what you have done; hide it not from me.” Joshua 7-19 shows us that confessing sins to a priest is giving glory to God. After accepting the confession, the priests say "May God release you" and not "I have released you". Even if we confess our sins in front of our father of confession, the one who hears and forgives our sins is God, but the system is carried out through our spiritual father whom God The Son Himself has appointed over us. "And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 16:19) 

A father of penance is a shepherd who teaches the children basic religion, monitors the overall change of the children, and cares about his sheep.

Our Lord Jesus Christ, to save us  - crucified on a cross, died and was buried, rose from the dead on the third day, appeared to the apostles after the resurrection and taught them : - "Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep." (Joh 21:15-17) And thus he gave him authority over the believers; And he made him a guard.
 
The father of penitence or the teacher of penitence means a good leader who makes the penitent children start a penitent life with the right intention.
 
A teacher of penance means a shepherd who teaches the children basic religion, monitors the overall change and spiritual progress of the children, and cares about his sheep.
 
The father of penance means a trustee who is able to provide the clear church teaching from the source; and has the duty to do so in order to protect the faithful from changing their religion, from losing their Christian charactor, and from  becoming victims of sorcerers and deceivers.
 
A penitent father means one who tirelessly strives to make his children mature. A penitent father must always pull and rouse his children to be active partakers of the for Holy Communion. This is not done by force, haste, or intimidation. Since the priest is the agent of the Holy Church, God's trustee, he is always required to teach, advise, encourage, pull, and arouse the faithful.

(Part 2 to be continued )👇

--- id:624 | date:2023-02-19T20:37:13 ---
About a Father of Repentant and his Responsibility 

(Part 2)

A penitent father should teach each of his children separately according to their religious knowledge and spiritual strength, and prepare them all for Holy Communion.
 
A penitent father is one who maintains perfect closeness among his repentant children. It gives the children of repentance the opportunity to serve as part of the solution to many problems. Starting from helping those in need, it is the role of the father of penitence to teach them by being an example to each other. This means that the penitent children of a priest should be as close as brothers and sisters born of the same father and mother, and even more so.
 
Repentance precedes Holy Communion. Since there is no time when mankind is free from sin, he should tell the sin he has committed to the penitent father every day and receive the canons and do what he is ordered. This great responsibility   is placed on the penitent teacher because a penitent father is a trustee. 

Our Lord said in the Gospel, "Who has a hundred sheep and if one of them is lost, he leaves the ninety-nine in the desert and does not go looking for the lost one until he finds it?" Luke 15:5. Priests are supposed to protect and serve each of us individually without forgetting a single person that they have been entrusted by God to protect us. 
 
A repentant father's personal relationship with his repentant children should be beyond  family's relationship or responsibility. Because  he is the guardian of our souls, he gives us guidance in spiritual and our social lives. But it is seen that many priests come to the houses of the believers only to offer services  of sprinkling holy water and blessing with  the cross. However, priests should give priority to teaching, advising, accepting confessions, comforting and disciplining as the church system has set for them. Since it is their goal to treat each of their penitent children with care and prepare them for the Holy Communion, their relationship should go beyond the spirit of family solidarity and focus on this main purpose of their priesthood. This is the greatest responsibility of the priest.
 
A penitent father must know the number of family members of his penitent children and each one of them.
 
A penitent father should remember his penitent children and their families and ask about them regularly.
 
A penitent father should practice prayer by praying with his children. Showing the true love of father and son. Worrying not only about their spiritual but also their physical life; Praying regularly for their work to be blessed, generally keeping a close eye on the children. This is the first and last task.
 
All in all; The Father of Repentance (Father of the Soul): He is in charge of our soul, which is invisible and intangible. Also, they are empowered by God to inherit the heavenly kingdom that we will inherit in the later days, which cannot be seen with the flesh and cannot be reached by research and knowledge. Therefore, the fathers we treat as penitent fathers should be those who have been proven by their knowledge, morals, fasting, prayers, religion, and conduct, and who should always take responsibility for their repentant children with diligence and vigilance. Because we need a dedicated priest who can stand as a witness to all the spiritual work we do before God, just as the holy angels stand as our guardians in subtle and mysterious ways. In this real world and in the life we live as a Christian, our priests and fathers have been appointed by God to be shepherds of our souls. Therefore, repenting is not a human command, but a Creator's instruction.
 
“And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven; Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven." (Matthew 16᎓19) This means:

(Part 3 continues)👇

--- id:625 | date:2023-02-19T20:39:37 ---
About a Father of Repentant and his Responsibility 

(Part 3)👇

Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ gave the holy apostles the authority of the priesthood to bind and loose, a subtle and heavenly authority. It is the power given to them by the Holy Spirit to bring people to heaven or to prevent them from heaven.
 
This means that when God Jesus Christ, who has all authority, chose and appointed the 12 apostles and 72 apostles from among the world, people who committed sins and committed wrongdoing came to the apostles and repented of their sins and confessed their sins.
 
It means that those who do not repent of their wrongdoing and do not turn back from their wrongdoing will be punished with the death of their souls and various spiritual plagues.
 
Our Lord says to the priests in his Gospel, "You are the light of the world" Matthew 5-14, because they are the ones who lead us to the Kingdom of God through repentance, and who lead us to the kingdom of God, and lead us to live in virtue, hating sin.
 

May God give us a heart of repentance. 

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:627 | date:2023-02-20T20:31:10 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Are we justified by works or by faith? #Righteousness, #faith, #conduct

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the topic mentioned above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

Wherever there is a law, there is justice and condemnation, for those who keep the law are justified and those who transgress the law are condemned. The message of the prophet Isaiah confirms this reality "If you are willing and obedient, You shall eat the good of the land; But if you refuse and rebel, You shall be devoured by the sword”; For the mouth of the Lord has spoken" (Isa. 1:19-20). Of course, the foundation of righteousness is faith. Good work is a roof and a wall. A foundation alone is not called a house, and faith without conduct is worthless. Just as a wall and a roof cannot stand without a foundation, doing good deeds without faith is like building a house on sand.

Everyone knows that there is a spiritual law in him, and that is conscience. Man does good by his natural moral knowledge or by his conscience. This indicates that there is one supreme God who rewards both the righteous and the wicked according to their deeds and judges impartially. To explain this, Saint Paul wrote the following; "for when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do the things in the law, these, although not having the law, are a law to themselves, who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and between themselves, their thoughts accusing or else excusing them)" (Romans 2:14-15).

In Orthodox Tewahedo doctrine, conduct is given the highest priority after religion. Morality is inseparable from faith. People who don't understand the teachings of the Bible say, "Only believe and you will be saved," interpreting the teachings of the apostles to their own will and carelessly changing the hearts and virtues of gentle people.

The apostle St. James said, "What does it profit, my brethren, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can faith save him?" "If a brother or sister is naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you says to them, “Depart in peace, be warmed and filled,” but you do not give them the things which are needed for the body, what does it profit? Thus also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead" James 2:14-17 reveals. Saint John Chrysostom, the Archbishop of Constantinople, says, "A building cannot stand and be seen without a foundation, and a Christian cannot be called a Christian without conduct" (Essay on John Chrysostom, Essay 9). Just as a tree that doesn't bear good fruit is cut down, if we do not do good because we have faith that is not manifested by works, then we are worthless. He said, "If your righteousness exceeds that of the nations, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven."

Because the Lord is perfect in all His works, "Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me" as we have in Matthew 11:29. Feeding the hungry, sympathizing and comforting the bereaved, welcoming guests, giving one to another, visiting the sick, preaching the gospel to the prisoner, and living in love are hallmarks of Christian ethics Matthew 25:15-30.

As it is said, "You are the salt of the earth". We have had enough of those whose lives are left with pharisaical leaven and are swayed by the original identity, revenge, malice and deceit, greed and impurity, adultery, and worshiping idols. we must get rid of the temptations of the flesh and return to a good identity (Matthew 5:11).

(Continues) 👇

--- id:628 | date:2023-02-20T20:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

Morality is the practical interpretation of what we believe. Believers and demons, as they are creatures of God, have testified that Christ is the Son of God. As written in the Holy Gospel, "And the unclean spirits, whenever they saw Him, fell down before Him and cried out, saying, “You are the Son of God.'" (Mark 3:11) "And when He had looked around at them with anger, being grieved by the hardness of their hearts, He said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored as whole as the other. Then the Pharisees went out and immediately plotted with the Herodians against Him, how they might destroy Him. But Jesus withdrew with His disciples to the sea. And a great multitude from Galilee followed Him, and from Judea and Jerusalem and Idumea and beyond the Jordan; and those from Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they heard how many things He was doing, came to Him" (Mark 5:5-8).
 
In his message, the apostle Saint James said, "You believe that there is one God. You do well. Even the demons believe—and tremble!" (James 2:19). He who keeps God's law and order will be saved from eternal judgment.

The Christian, who is the seed of Christ, should be the solution to the war of separation of evil in our world today, with his good orthodox morals. "Flee from evil and do good and you will live forever" (Psalm 37:27)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:632 | date:2023-02-21T20:42:20 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Advice on #general #life #challenge
 
👉Question 1: How does one avoid fearing failure and worrying too much about the future?
 
Answer 1st: The solution is to make God our power. Man falls when he is separated from God. Not doing what God says 'Do', and doing what God says 'Don't do' is a sin. When we say 'fall', we mean fall into sin. For example, he says don't kill, "killing is falling", don't steal, "stealing is falling", don't lie, he says "lying is falling", live in love, don't fight, he says "fighting is falling", so if this is the case, then doing what God likes will not lead to failure.
 
A person who lives with God will do what God wants him to do. A person who does what God loves will not be found in failure, nor will he fail. So the solution is to not worry and to avoid failure. "It is possible for all who believe" (Mark 9:23). A person who lives with God can do everything, even if he falls into sin, he will rise in repentance, he will control himself, and manage.
 
Therefore, our fathers neither worry nor get upset about useless things. Because of this, sin did not fall upon  them, and even if it fell upon them, they repented. Therefore, even if we are separated from God by sin, we must repent, do the work that God loves, persevere in religion, be strong, fast and pray, because these are our spiritual weapons, we are expected to hold and carry them out.
 
Matthew chapter 17 verse 21 tells us, "Without fasting and prayer, an evil spirit will not come out." Therefore, it is the evil spirit that lives with us and makes us do things that God does not like. This can be avoided only when we are equipped with spiritual armor. What we call spiritual armor is fasting, prayer, prostration, almsgiving, etc. as we mentioned above.

Some people believe that they can handle any challenge on their own; But self-confidence does not exempt from suffering; The best thing is to believe and hope in God.

Living in God's hope makes us have full faith in Him. With God on our side, each of us can reach beyond our imagination. Therefore, our hope depends on the strength of our faith in our God. Hope is the stepping stone to move forward in life, the foundation of our life and the beginning of our happiness. For if we live in hope, we will pass into eternal life.

Prophet David said, "Who is my hope now? Isn't it God?" he said, even if we are in trouble, we should believe that God will get us out of trouble. It is mentioned in the Bible that the prophet lived hoping and relying on God when his enemies were many. And God did not hand him over to his enemies. (1 Sam. 16-31)
 
In general, It is possible to avoid over-anxiety by doing what God loves, putting God first in all things, fearing God, and obeying His orders, practicing trust and hope.  

The Bible says, "Do not worry about what we will eat, what we will drink, what we will wear. Who among you is anxious and can add a cubit to his height?" Who says I should be longer or shorter? He said that no one can, so we shouldn't worry, we shouldn't disturb ourselves, if we are with God, if we repent whenever we fall into sin, if we receive His holy body and holy blood, we are good. "Our biggest solution is to live with God."

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:635 | date:2023-02-22T20:30:15 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Advice on #general #life #challenge

👉🏾 Question 2: What are the ways we can deal with difficult situations in our lives? Thank you
 
✍  Answer 2: One is Religion. Our forefathers, because of their religion, faced all the difficult issues that separate them from God, they were steadfast and strong. Even if they were told  'deny your religion, bow down to an idol', they said we will not compromise on our religion. By way of punishment for saying so, as the scriptures tell us, they were thrown into the fire, but the fire did not harm them, they were thrown to the lions and the lions did not eat them. This is because God protected them through the steadfastness of their faith. What made them so is their steadfastness in religion, which means, "It is possible for everyone who believes." It is possible for everyone who says, 'It will be possible for me.'
 
For example, Elijah believed and prayed to God to hold the rain for three years, because the people did not know God, they were people who  worshiped idols, so he prayed to God to hold the rain so their eyes can open up and see the glory of God. Jacob described it in chapter 5 of his message: Elijah is a man like us, he gets sick just like we get sick, but he prayed to God that it wouldn't rain and the rain was prevented. Later, he asked God to make it rain again, and it rained, it was his religion that made it so.
 
The other is morality. Religion and morals are very important. A believer must respect God's commandments and put his faith into practice. "And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you. (Luk 17:5-6) And this was done by "Abraham the Syrian".
 
Therefore, a religious person should not have anything to fear or worry about, there are no difficult things for him. Abraham the Syrian destroyed the mountain with his religion. God's prophet Elijah stopped the rain, God's prophet Moses parted the Eritrean sea, God's prophet Joshua stopped the sun, our righteous father Abune Aregawi was placed on a dragon with the strength of his faith and morals, Father Samuel Zewaldba was commuting on a lion.
 
Therefore, the answer is morality, and religion. Morality means fasting, prayer, prostration, almsgiving, humility, love, etc. In general, it is doing all the things that God loves. In the same way, not doing things that God doesn't like is called spiritual work, it is called a manifestation of religion. If we do this, nothing difficult can happen to us.

Another thing we need to understand is that the duty of a Christian is always to live in hope, not despair. As the apostle St. Paul said, "Stand firm in the religion you have learned," we are expected to live steadfastly in faith in God. We must live in hope, believing that God, who saved us, sacrificed his only son and paid the price for us on the cross. (Col. 2:7)
 
People may experience a lot of suffering and pain while living in this world. Our lives will be full of trials. If we look at the story of Job, when his wealth and possessions were lost, when all his children died and his whole body was struck by disease, he trusted God and lived patiently, but did not give up hope. It is said, "Job was tested like gold in fire." God spoke to Job in the cloud. After that he cured him of all his diseases. He blessed all his wealth and made it twice as much as before and gave him blessed children, servant men and women. (Job 1:21)
 
(Continues)👇

--- id:636 | date:2023-02-22T20:33:02 ---
(Continued part)👆👇

Therefore, we believe that God's word is hope. It is proper to go to church regularly, listen to the word and read the scriptures, know the gospel, understand the faith and practice it. As we have seen above, our righteous fathers who understood the word, obeyed the law and the commandments, not only had hope, but they are also the hope of salvation for others. We beseech them to think of us in their prayers, and to beg for God's goodness and mercy through their intercession.

Besides, it is very important for us to follow the example of our fathers in our lives and beliefs, as the main reason why their stories are written for us is so that we can learn from them and imitate them in our religion. It is good for us to see and learn how our fathers lived their lives. Next, there is something that God commanded us, Matthew chapter 10 verse 16 "Be wise as serpents and gentle as doves." Therefore, an orthodox Christian who is united by doing these things means that even if he faces obstacles, he will overcome them with his gentleness and wisdom.
 
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends፦ https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:643 | date:2023-02-23T20:50:43 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A brief about #John's #Repentance spiritual service

This service is the English version of our Amharic service የዮሐንስ ንስሐ፦ https://t.me/+ReLdpifiso4Sz04q

The purpose of this service is to bridge the language barrier that many face when trying to learn about the faith and bring the success we had with the Amharic program to a whole new set of audience. 

We provide 24/7 Q&A support, lessons on the major feasts, lessons on the teachings of the church, a medium where fellow Orthodox can connect, discuss and encourage one onother. Members can ask publicly on Telegram or privately on Facebook, Telegram or using our email address. 

We also provide spiritual support over phone by assisting in a number of ways. 

We post everyday at 11:30pm EST on Telegram and have presence in other social medias as well: 

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/johnrepentancechristianorthodox
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/johnsrepentance.orthodox.qna/
Telegram: https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh
TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@orthodoxqnas?_t=8ZaNxODGqqp&_r=1
Website: yohannesneseha.org (click English for language)

The intended audience for our service is anyone age 16 and up. This is a very safe space where people ask about anything and everything which is why we have an age restriction. However we do not have a faith restriction: anyone who wants to learn about the faith is welcome. They can ask questions, read what we post, call us and use the service to help them in their spiritual journey. 

Our service is not common and the best way to understand the value we offer is to experience it by asking questions, reading regularly, inviting friends, communicating with your fellow brothes and sisters, calling us for spiritual support, staying fully engaged and practicing what you learn. 

You may also share hyms, icons, news and so forth that you think is super useful to your Orthodox brothers and sisters as long as it doesn't have a link.

You can search through content using this method: 

Say you want to read about marriage, then you search #marriage and all the answers and lessons that have 'marriage' as their topic will show up. If you want to read a lesson, you choose the ones that has 3 hands (👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾) whereas if you want Q&A, you choose the ones thtat have 1 hand only (👉🏾). 

Say you want to search all the content that have both 'repentance' and 'fornication' in the topic, then you search: #repentance #fornication and you will get all the relevant results. 

Clicking the highlighted text above will also take you to those topics.

This service has the blessings of Abune Ermias (Bishop) which can be seen in some of our YouTube videos (in Amharic), is mainly lead by Like Hiruyan Tserse Abebe (Priest, church Scholar and head of the EOTC's public relations department), Aba Wolde Giorgis (Monk), Memeher Simur Getenet (priest and Church scholar)

Although the above are the major personals in the service, there are numerous others who serve day and night as volunteers.

Although the Church that has initiated this service is the EOTC, we sometimes reference and allow you to post material from any Orthodox Church, eastern and oriental.   

It is the order of God that His people first be served and thus we have done for the past three years with the Amharic service. By the will of God we are now providing the service in English so everyone can learn about the true faith regardless of their background. Hence we urge you to spread awareness of this service and be a reason for the salvation of your friends, family and even coworkers. Do not hide God's talent in the ground (The Parable of the Talents Matthew 25:14-30)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:654 | date:2023-02-24T20:31:03 ---
👉🏾 About #marriage and the holy #Eucharist 

👉Question: Does marital status determine whether to receive Holy Communion? For example, if we are single, married, what if our partner is not willing? Or what should I do if my fiance refuses to marry me in the sacrament?

✍Answer: One of the sacrements of the New Testament is Christ's holy flesh and His precious blood. We have said that the special gift of the Holy Spirit that we have been blessed with since the birth of a boy on the 40th day and the birth of a girl on the 80th day is the food of eternal life. To separate from this is to die although we seem alive simply because we breath. Our body: If we lose  food for a few days or even for few hours for some people, it is definitely not possible to stay alive. This is one of the common weaknesses of the body where we lose our fleshly existence. Likewise, if the soul loses Christ's holy flesh and precious blood, it dies and has no life. It means that we have killed it. Therefore, in order to eat this eternal life, to drink that gives eternal life, we should learn what kind of system and what kind of spiritual preparation we should follow. We are commanded by God to live a Christian life, of which the Holy Eucharist is the foundation. Any teaching that keeps us away by threatening and exaggerating for other reasons is false teaching and should be avoided. 

Apostle St. Paul said that if we eat and drink the ultimate food of the soul without preparation and understanding, it will be a debt to us. This means that it is necessary to always have a life prepared for repentance and to accept those who are counselors in the affairs of our souls, the fathers of the church whom God has appointed as our servants and shepherds. In other words, we are commanded to always receive with repentance, so that we do not make this mistake that St. Paul wrote about (so that we do not receive without deserving or understanding this), but there is no occasion where we are commanded to depart from this mystery, not even for a single day.

Therefore, for those who are said to be before marriage, as we mentioned above, we should realize that we should continue to accept what we received in our childhood, that started from the time of Christianity,  until the end of our lives. But we should do this without committing any shame or sin as that is the only thing which keeps us away from the Holy Communion. Everyone knows what sin or shame is that keeps us away from the Holy Communion, even a child knows. There is no one who does not know the type of sin from the smallest to the highest level of sin. Murder, adultery, adultery, all these seeming sins can keep you away from the sacrament. But through repentant and reprimanded, you can continue the communion by repenting and being mentored and taught by their penitent father. 

Back to the question, it is to say that we should do this throughout our life, and it is not a matter of martial status. Both the male and female start participating in this sacrement at the time of their baptism and actively participate alone until they reach maturity age. After that, the man chooses someone who resembles him in his spiritual life and the woman chooses someone who resembles her in her spiritual life and they get married and continue with the Holy Communion together. Even those who are not married in the Holy Communion, without having this opportunity, come to repentance and they, too, can continue their holy purpose that they have abandoned. Because the Church has made a system for us, it has reconciliation for all from her creator.

To be continued 👇

--- id:656 | date:2023-02-24T20:38:55 ---
(Continued part)👆👇.
 
In general, the sacrament does not depend on the state of marriage; After all, the Holy Church has never commanded us to stay away from the Holy Communion for a single day until marriage. This is an attitude that some people have brought by habit, or even counselors and teachers have been absorbed in the people's system, not God's system; and we need to understand that it is not the correct teaching of the Church. Besides, it is not an honor for us to continue to be a father of repentance for people living far from the Holy Communion, but a great shame. Why? The first and foremost task of a penitent father is to teach his penitent children, equip them for penance and Holy Communion, and watch over them to live steadfastly in this spiritual life. But as we can see what is happening in practice, does everyone who is a Christian receive the Holy flesh and the precious blood of Christ?  Not really.
 
On the other hand although it is not comparable with our faith, when we see other faith institutions around the world who claim to be in Christianity, even those who do not believe in partaking fekm His holy flesh and precious blood do not leave without receiving 'in rememberence' each time they come to their church, never. Our church, however, does not consider the Holy Communion as a memorial, and not do not take this mystery simply or boldly. Rather, we receive it believing that it is the real holy flesh and his noble blood that our Creator shed for us through all that suffering on Friday; and we accept it in the fear of God . This is Christian ethics. As Christian ethics, we correct our wrongdoing and accept it through a life of repentance. So, the only thing that may keeps us far from the Holy Communion before and during marriage is our own sin.

So the answer to the question is that if there is a time when we are different from Holy Communion, the biggest thing is our own reason. Thi may be, either we didn't get real lesson of the Orthodox Church; Or that we are not willing to repent for what we committed a sin; Or that we have not decided to stop that sin. But, in general, there is no time to deprive us the Holy Communion except in this way.

(to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:666 | date:2023-02-25T20:33:40 ---


--- id:667 | date:2023-02-25T20:33:40 ---


--- id:668 | date:2023-02-25T20:33:40 ---


--- id:669 | date:2023-02-25T20:33:40 ---


--- id:670 | date:2023-02-25T20:33:57 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Holy #Eucharist and  and about our Lady #Virgin #Mary
 
Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the topic mentioned above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

"I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever, and the bread that I give for the life of the world is my body." (John 6:51)
 
This word speaks of the body of Christ in which eternal life is found. And this flesh was obtained from the Virgin Mary. The Gospel of John begins as follows: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God... and the Word became flesh" (John 1:1 and 14). When he said, "The Word became flesh," he is actually confirming that the Son of God came down from the heavens to save the fallen Adam, took the flesh from the Virgin Mary's body, and the soul from her soul, and appeared as a man. This is God who became man. Because, in the Old Testament (before God appeared in the flesh), God asked Adam, "Where are you, Adam?" / Gen. 3:10/ After making him tell his whereabouts, He gave him a promise of salvation, "I will be born from your grandson and save you" (Klemenitus).

Later, when the time came, the angel Gabriel was sent to the Virgin Mary and said to her, "Behold, you will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will call his name Jesus, and he will be great." He is also called the son of the innocent. (Luke 1:1-3) Holding this word, when we refer back what Isaiah said in his prophecy, "...therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign, behold, a virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and she will call his name Immanuel." He says. (Isaiah 7:14)

The Lord Jesus also taught extensively about Bread from Heaven (John 6: 22-59). His teachings of ‘Bread from Heaven’ are the basis for Mystery of Holy Eucharist. St John the Evangelist summarized this as follows: “Most assuredly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you. Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. For My flesh is food indeed, and My blood is drink indeed. He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him.” (John 6:53-56). This eternal word remains to be the core theology of mystery of Holy Eucharist.

Jesus Christ, when he taught about his holy body and his precious blood, which was begotten from the Virgin Mary, united and given to the world for salvation, he said, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you." (John 6:53).
All those who eat and drink the flesh and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, who was crucified on Friday to save us, will inherit the kingdom. The holy body and the noble blood given to the world for salvation is from the Virgin Mary. This is why we call her the cause of salvation (sign of salvation) in our teaching about the Virgin Mary.
 
Also, the prophet Isaiah said, 'Lord God will give you a sign', then using a connecting word "behold", he continued saying a virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, God has revealed to the house of David that the sign for the revelation of the Messiah and the salvation of mankind is a virgin and that she will conceive as a virgin. Later, when the prophecy was fulfilled while angel Gabriel was sent from God "to a virgin," the evangelist Lukas wrote in connection with the words of the prophet Isaiah, "and the virgin's name was Mary" (Luke 1:27).
 
This is why we say that the Virgin Mary is the origin and manifestation of the sacrament. Without having her, without believing that she is the Mother of God, without believing in her purity, her virginity, her glory and her intercession, it is not possible to receive Holy Communion, it is not possible to receive the sacrifice of the faithful.

(Part 2 Continues )👇

--- id:671 | date:2023-02-25T20:36:02 ---
About Holy Eucharistand  and about our Lady Virgin Mary
 
(Part 2)

The words of Christ himself, "If ye eat not the flesh of the Son of man," confirm us that he was revealed as a perfect man. This is a word that states that the Son of God is called the Son of Man, because he was born of the Virgin Mary, who is of the human race.
 
For this reason, Our Lady was praised by our fathers as the source of the sacrament. Among them, Father Hriakos said in the liturgical prayer of St. Mary, "O Mary, you have brought us the true food and the true drink, so we glorify you and praise you" (v.9); We also call our Lady our mother, our intercessor, the reason for our salvation, etc., because she gave birth to Jesus Christ, who gives us eternal life, who gave us the true food of body and soul. As our Lord Jesus Christ also told us that, "This is that bread which came down from heaven: not as your fathers did eat bread, and are dead: he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever." (John 6:52 and 58)
 
Therefore, we Christians believe in this way, we honor the source of the Lamb, the cause of our salvation, in all its glory, and we say to the mother of our Savior, 'Rejoice, O Virgin full of grace'. As the Virgin Mary said, " for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed." (Luke 1:48), we Orthodox Christians thank her, and all our generations to come will thank her.
 
Additional point -  Before incarnation, there were two natures and two persons. Divinity and Humanity. The Divine nature, God the Son, is one nature with the Father and the Holy Spirit. He is also one of the three persons of God. He is present everywhere, is eternal, knows everything, and can do everything. On the other aspect was Humanity, the Human nature. Humanity is a combination of Flesh/body (Soil, Air, Fire, Water) and rational Soul (Think, Speak, Immortal). The human nature has limited knowledge and power. We believe that God the Son perfectly united with body and soul from St Virgin Mary. A prominent church scholar, St Cyril (Kyrillos) explained this biblical fact saying “starting from incarnation, there is only one person Jesus Christ. Whatever belongs to Divinity, is an attribute of His humanity and whatever belongs to humanity is an attribute of His Divinity.”
 
Based on Orthodox teachings, incarnation is from two Persons to one Person; and from two natures to one united nature. From two Persons to one Person means Divine Person and Human united in to one hypostasis, Jesus Christ – He is both perfectly Divine and perfectly Human. Similarly, from two natures to one nature means Divine nature and Human nature perfectly united in to one united nature. We believe that this incarnation is without alteration/change, without reversion, without mingling/mixing, without dwelling, without superimposing, without separation, and without detachment.
 
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:673 | date:2023-02-26T20:30:19 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Obstacles to #Repentance

 👉Question: My life has been polluted by sins and I wanted to repent. But I was very afraid of falling into the same sin again, so I thought before I repent, I should try to overcome the sin that challenges me. If I win, then I will repent and cleanse myself of the past. What do you advise me about this?

Answer: Among the ways of salvation that Satan fights against, there is no better than repentance, because repentance destroys all the edifices of sin that the enemy, the devil, has built to destroy the lives of Christians, making it not exist by God's grace. Because of this, he tries to prevent us from repentance, and even if we were to repent, he will never stop doing his best to prevent it from happening sooner than later. Among the obstacles to repentance that the enemy, the devil, uses to keep people in sin or prolong the time for repentance:

1. Creating obstacles: They can be sudden challenges or opportunities, but they disable us from repenting by creating obstacles.

2. To convince the sinner that he is better by comparing himself with those who have sinned more than him and that he does not need repentance, but holiness should not be compared to a sinful life.

3. Being guided by environmental influences due to the weakness of the flesh. Saint Paul said, "Do not be conformed to this world." Romans 12:2 A small fish swims in a stormy sea. A Christian should withstand such temptations and live a spiritual life.

4. Delay: The devil does not fight us directly to prevent us from repenting, but he delays us from repenting by suppressing various hidden temptations and reasons. One of the dangers of procrastination is changing the heart prepared for repentance and destroying the opportunity for repentance. If sin is not crushed immediately and continues, it will take root and become an addiction, and then it can destroy the regret and desire for repentance.

5. Despair:  Before we fall into sin, Satan makes us sin by thinking of God's goodness and forgiveness, and after we sin, he reminds us of God's judgment and cruelty and discourages us from repenting.

6. By making the repentant think that he is not a sinner, that he is justified by self-admiration.  A man cannot change what he thinks is good unless he believes that his own life is corrupted by sin. If there is no spiritual change in his life, he will not think about repentance. He does not repent, so he does not examine himself.

7. Not having a God-fearing heart: According to Saint Isaac, if there is no God-fearing, there is no repentance. Sometimes, some people take out "GOD-fearing" from their hearts in excuse of love. At this time, they become careless about their penitential life and fall into sin. Because of sin, they lose the love of God that leads them to repentance.

In general, it is not appropriate to live as a slave of sin or to fight without repenting but fighting with and winning the devil, falling and getting up in repentance. Joshua son of Sirak told his son that if he wanted to serve God, he should prepare himself for the challenges he would face. Satan is jealous of our spiritual work when it comes to our fasting and repentance. He fights to prevent us from accepting the value of our labor. He will prepare every trap so that we will fall. He tells us that you will not leave us until we surrender. But as St. Peter told us, "Your partner the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Knowing that your brothers in the world have received all that suffering, resist him steadfastly in faith (1 Peter 5:89), we should remember this advice and fight, not give up or run away in fear."

In the work that a person does, while controlling his body and humbly contributing the good, he is given the repentance which he discards the evil work day by day with. "Not even heaven is clean before God, let alone a man who drinks sin like water." Job 15:15.

(Continues)👇

--- id:674 | date:2023-02-26T20:42:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

Since it is impossible for a person to be free from sin, repentance is done in the morning and in the evening if needed, but it is not delayed so we don't accumulate sin. The righteousness or sin that a person does every day is written in God's record. If we repent for our sin to our father of confession and wash it with tears of repentance, it will be destroyed. Today, we give the pitty excuse that we are ashamed to tell the priest, but we don't know when we will be taken away. We will be taken away suddenly and may hear the word " go away from me" on judgment day. Because if we die while we are in sin and not repenting, we will suffer in the after life. Therefore, we must realize that living in sin while being subject to sin is a shame for the soul.

In addition to this, not only will we lose the death of our soul by not repenting, but even when we live on earth, our fasting and prayers will not be fruitful without repentance. Fasting or any spiritual service is a practice period where we try to get closer to God. Sin pushes us out of this life. Therefore, in order to get closer to God, one should quickly remove sin through repentance. During fasting, just as the body is forbidden from food, the soul is also forbidden from all earthly and worldly desires. For this we return to God through repentance; And God will return to us. "Behold, the hand of God is not shortened from saving, nor his ear deaf from hearing, but your iniquity has separated between you and your God, and your sin has hidden his face from you." (Isa 59:1:2) Therefore, food served on a beautiful and polished table will make me happy, fasting and prayer done with repentance and a clean and polished body will bring reward. "Return to me and I will return to you" (Mal 3:7), God called his people to repentance through his prophets. 

 (continues) 👇

--- id:677 | date:2023-02-26T20:54:28 ---
(Continued)👆

To sum up, to live in sin is death and slavery. Sin takes away from us peace, rest, tranquility, understanding. It also causes stress. It keeps us away from the grace and fruits of the Holy Spirit.  It makes us vulnerable to worldly thoughts, actions, and lust of the flesh. It takes away from God's sonship, from the protection of the Trinity, from life, from love, from the goodness and virtues of God. Sin will also take us to eternal death. There are ups and downs in the journey of life. The crutch that help us stand up again is repentance. Repentance is like being born again or being regenerated every time. Anyone who commits sins every now and then adds diseases to old age. The Christianity of a person who does not repent is useless and his sins will be many. A person who repents and frequently examines himself for his soul with his confession father is like a healthy and peaceful person because he always asks a doctor for help.

So our questioner, thinking about running away from repentance and fighting sin is like making a plan to widen the door for sin or extending the date for repentance, so we recommend that this is not appropriate. Instead, as our Lord Jesus Christ told us, "if your burden is heavy, come to me", because he called us to help us from our burden, we must repent and fight to be freed from sin by taking down our burden continuously. God is our power to be able to do what we think we cannot do. It is said to draw near to God and he will draw near to you (Jas 4:8).  Thus, we should have our hopes in the faithful GOD and listen to his calling for our repentance. His unwavering words say "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble" (James 4:6), so that no one falls into the grave of sin that he commits regularly and does not fall away from being the child of God, and that GOD's grace that is constantly given to him is not lacking, everyone should have a life of repentance. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:678 | date:2023-02-27T20:30:19 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 What is #Religion? 

👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 What is #Christianity? 

👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 What is the #orthodox religion? 
 
 
Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the questions on the topic above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.
 
The name Religion  is a word that includes theology, rituals and morals that should be possessed by human beings due to faith. Accordingly, religion or faith is defined as believing, trusting, knowing the existence of the Creator, understanding the goodness of His existence, accepting divine facts correctly, never doubting God's divine tasks, and firmly hoping for heavenly life. 

The foundation of religion is to accept your creator. Acknowledging your Creator begins with believing in being a creature. Because there is no one who says that I am created by myself. Therefore, if a person believes that he is created, then he starts looking for the Creator. 
 
Just as no result of work can be obtained without a maker, no being can be obtained without a creator. For example, ships, airplanes, computers, and all technological products that are generally considered to be wonderful are the results of the human brain's and wisdom, not self-existed by their own. So, if the above-mentioned human devices cannot happen by themselves, how can the abstract human mind that produced them be found without the creator? It is not possible. If one considers it possible, his thinking will be the result of lazyiness. This is why, "The lazy man says in his heart that God does not exist." written as Psalm 13:1, Isaiah 45:11. 
 
Religion is the path of conscience that connects the creature with the Creator. If a person does not have religion, he will not be able to reach the creator. Because, there is no other way to get there. "Let him know, that he who converts the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins." (John 5:20) says. The 'way' is religion, and the purpose and goal of religion is to be aware of the existance God; and make the creature be guided by the laws and orders of the Creator in order to gain eternal glory. Matthew 25:34. "Who is wise to perceive this thing, who is wise to know it? God's way is honest, and the righteous walk in it. But transgressors will fall under it.” As said (Hosea 14:9) 
 
God is the creator of all creations, so God is the Lord and Owner of all creations. That is to say, He is the creator of all things by His divine power, but for Him there is no creator, who created the past for His creations, but for Him there is no past, and He who determines the end for creations, but for Him there is no end. God is, has been, will live forever. Religion is accepting this and living according to the order of God. When we say the creator, we mean  who created something that did not exist before , who created the world from non-existence to existence. It is God who brought the world into existence, created all the visible and invisible, the vast and the subtle creations by His divine power. 

God did not abandon the world after He created it, rather He keeps nurturing it. Since God is the only one who brought this world from non-existence to existence and has no equal in His divine power, God is called one God. To know God means to know and believe that there is one God who existed before the world, who is in the center of the world, who lives through the world, who is a creator, a steward, who lives firmly in his divine nature, who has no loss for his kingdom, who has no loss for his existence. 

(Continues)👇

--- id:679 | date:2023-02-27T20:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

Therefore, as the creator is one, religion can also be only one. Religion is given once by God, as it is said, "Religion was given once for all to the saints" (Jude 3). God gave religion. And we accepted. Human beings can only accept religion, but cannot work or improve religion. Religion is not a material thing, but a life lived by believing in the revelation of the Holy Spirit. Basically, the word that religion is one is a truth that does not raise any questions for a person who understands the unity of the creator. Religion means accepting your creator and trusting in His laws. We belive in one God and the creator is one in nature.

Therefore, believing in the existence of one Creator and performing worship worthy of His nature cannot be in many, but in one unified system. This is the great truth. When the Apostle St. Paul said that religion is one as the creator is one, he said, "There is one Lord, one religion, one baptism, who is above all, who works in all, who lives in all, and who is the Father of all." (Eph 4:5) 

It is said that God made a law for the first man, Adam, with dos and don'ts. They made a covenant that if Adam kept the law he would live forever and if he broke it he would be punished with death. The first religion in the history of mankind is called this covenant relationship between Adam and Adam's creator. But Adam was deceived by the devil's evil advice and broke the law. He broke his promise. As a result, he lost a God-like father and was expelled from Paradise. But because God is good merciful , according to his promise to bring Adam back to his glory, he appeared as a man wearing Adam's body to fulfill his promise. When he appeared as a man, His name was called Christ. Those who believe that Christ is the natural son of God are called Christians. This means a disciple of Christ's side. And the faith (religion) is called Christianity. 


Therefore, as we have received religion from God, people's role is only to  belive in it and use it to inherit eternal life. This means that no individual or entity in this world has the authority to add or subtract from the truth (religion) given by God. Although, we see more number of denominations called Christianity which are founded by human philosophy; and some ask which is the right one being confused. Our answer is that the right Christianity is the one which was founded by Christ himself. Infact  it is clear that except for one, the rest were invented many years after Christ's ascension, and this has become an increasing and unstoppable matter like the number of human beings. However, the knowledge found in religion is given or revealed by God himself, not the knowledge or discovery that man has attained through research. This is what our Lord Jesus Christ explained by saying, "I gave them the promise you gave me, and they accepted it." (John 17:6) 
 
Therefore, religion is the way that God has revealed Himself and given us to bring us to Him. This is built on the foundation of St. Peter's belief that "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God" (Matthew 16:16). When our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ revealed himself to the world, when Philip arrived from a place called Caesarea, he asked his disciples, "Who do people say the Son of Man is?" After asking, he asked his disciples, "Who do you say that I am?" they have. And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him. Son of Jonah, Son of Jonah, blessed are you, for flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father in heaven. And I say to you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it." (Mathew 15:15-17)

(Continues) 👇

--- id:693 | date:2023-02-28T20:30:41 ---
(Continued) 👆

(Part Three)

So true Christianity is to believe that Christ is the Son of God. This teaching was taught by the apostles after the ascension of the founder, Christ himself, followed by the apostles and the desciplew and their followers who succeeded them until today.

 "Remember those who have spoken the word of God to you, and imitate them in faith, thinking of the fruit of their faith" (Hebrews 13:3). 

That is why the Orthodox religion has kept and remain in this faith of Peter. This is the rock of Peter's faith, as our Lord confirmed. Our church is directly based on this belief/rock, so it is called Orthodox Tewahedo. This rock is not renewable. Religion is the foundation. Conduct is a wall and ceiling. Therefore, the Bible says, "No one can lay a foundation other than the one that has been laid, which is Jesus Christ (1 Cor 3:11)." He says. A religion based on this foundation will renew a person, but it will not be renewed.

The mystery of Incarnation is the center of  our religion; and it defines our religious and spiritual identity. It’s on the basis of this mystery that our apostolic orthodox church got the prefix in its name “Tewahedo” and we are called Christians. Tewahedo is a Geez word which represents the inseparable unity between Divinity and humanity in the person of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. The mystery of incarnation is a fundamental biblical teaching about revelation of God to human beings. Through incarnation mysteries of kingdom of Heaven were revealed to human beings.  
 
The key word that translates Orthodox Tewahedo is "Wold Wahd" (the pre-age was born from a father without a mother, the afterworld was born from the Virgin Mary without a father, the only son, Jesus Christ). The basis for the name "Son" is the Gospel saying "And the Word was made flesh,". John 1:14. It means a direct and correct faith/religion that believes that Jesus Christ became one person from two natures and one body from two natures. This is based on what the prophets said, what Jesus Christ taught in the gospel, what the apostles preached, and what the scholars established. It is direct because it has been passed down from generation to generation from the apostles (the first Christians). She is the real one because she is uncorrupted, unaltered and unrevised. 
 
Indeed, there is no one who can compete with the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church in preaching the true Christ. The foundation of Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo is Jesus Christ. (1st Cor. 3:10) This religious truth is irrevocable, unchangeable, absolutely correct, and we believe in it until death. (Revelation 2:10) The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church is the heavenly Jerusalem on earth that preaches Christ from dawn to dusk, and from dusk to dawn 24 hours a day, year after year. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church is foremost in preaching Christ. 
 
Some people say, "The word orthodox is not in the Bible." But in the prophecy, "Thus saith the LORD, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein.(Jer 6:16). He says. In the New Testament, "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever (Hebrews 13:8)." This shows that there is one straight path/religion. It is Orthodox Tewahedo.

(Part Four continues )👇

--- id:694 | date:2023-02-28T20:33:02 ---
(Part Four)

Therefore, it means to believe that Christ is the Son of God and the Son of Man, that He is a perfect God and a perfect man, and that He is a God who is a man without changing. Believing this and being baptized is a confirmation of our faith. Believing means accepting, for baptism means trusting. Baptism is performed in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. (Mathew 28:19) When Christ himself told those who were called Christians what their lives should be like, he said to them, "Learn from me, for I am meek and lowly in heart." (Matthew 11:29) Therefore, Christianity means believing in Christ's divinity, being baptized in his name, and living the life that Christ lived. 

” But this thing commanded I them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people: and walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well unto you.” Jeremiah 7:23

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:695 | date:2023-02-28T20:36:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #marriage and the #Eucharist 

👉Question: If two adults got married outside of the church but are Orthodox Christians, are they still able to take Holy Communion now? Or do they need to first take Communion together?

✍Answer  Our family, first, it is important to note that any Christian should not be far from the Holy Communion throuh out his/her life once after he/she become child of God in the 40th  and 80th  day of birth; as  they are  baptized and sealed by Holy Communion and entered the gate point of Christianity since then.
 
When we come to the question, about marriage:-

Marriage is a great mystery: Because it is a a secret of unity between the divine and the flesh. As our Lord said, they become one flesh. The main cause of this is about the three party involved in marriage: The couple and God! If there is anyone missing, it is not considered marriage. Marriage is an event where by Our flesh becomes His flesh and our blood His blood . It is a secret to the couple sealed in the sacred sacrament. All of this is when marriage is fulfilled in his holy flesh and the glorious blood, This is the time we receive invisible grace in visible service. "Together in the flesh: "thness," thy bones of my bones, and Flesh of My Flesh "(Gen. 2:23). This is a truth realized by this mystery. More than physical unity, we find the unity and love of the spirit. In general, marriage is mystery because the brides will change from physical unity to spiritual unity.
 
Therefore, in short,  marriage is unity of two opposite sexes, which is true and Christian marriage fulfilled in the sacrament. Because of physical unity, we will grow up to the unity and love of the spirit, and our Lord Jesus Christ will be our spiritual support. So,  any other than this Church system,  it is the Gentiles, not a Christian marriage.
 
So our dear member, If you first receive the sacrament upon marriage ceremony, it is not a must to receive together after then; rather they can go alone at their own convinient times and receive Holy couminion alone. Also, when it is convinent time for both, they can also go together and receive individually like others. The main point is that they have to receive it once being together.
 
But,  knowingly or unknowingly , if they were already married out of the Church system,  they must first repent and receive Holy Communion together by the guidance and assistance of their repetance father. This is a special occation where by they will also be dressed an Honor's garment (Caba) and sit  at a special place. All this will be arranged by the assistance of their repetance father.  So, they celebrate this first day in a different spiritual system. After this, they can receive anytime at their convinient time individually at  regular basis. They can also go together when it is convinient time for both. The point is once they receive together, they can  receive Holy Communion individually; at heir convinience. 
 
But if they have not received the Holy Communion before (being together); they cannot then receive individually, or one of them can not receive alone. If the problem is that one of them refusing or not wanting to receive, then he/she will be given series of spiritual lesson and advice through the father of repentance. Then if he/she agreed on it,  they will receive together. And then, they can continue to receive in a regular basis individually. But , if incase, the problem can not be solved, with a series of advise given by the spiritual fathers, then we need to give more try until the end even by involving more Church Scholars and closer families whom he/she can listen. If it still becomes beyond our capacity and if we are sure that all exaustive trial is done ,, then since it is a matter of soul ,a final solution will be given. The solution of the problem will be  recommended by their father of repetance and the final decision on it will be made by the couples mutually or individually .

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:701 | date:2023-03-01T20:49:41 ---


--- id:702 | date:2023-03-01T20:49:47 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Communion 

👉What is the Holy Communion?

👉What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion?

👉Who founded the Holy Communion?

👉Why is the Holy Communion called a Mystery?

👉Who is worthy of the Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do before receiving Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do when we receive Holy Communion?

👉What are major points we need to understand before receiving it?

👉What precautions should we take after receiving Holy Communion?

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the questions on the topic above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.


About the Holy Communion, its Origin and the ceremony

According to the canon of our Church, the Holy Eucharist (Qurban) is one of the seven sacraments of the Church. Qurban is a Surist and Greek (Arabic) word that means blessing, gift of money, knowledge, labor and time. In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.
 
In the Old Testament era, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called 'sacrifice', 'communion'.
 
But in the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile himself with mankind. Therefore, the sacrament means the perfect body and blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior, the Lamb of God.

It is our God, our Savior, Jesus Christ, who founded the sacrament of the Holy Communion. And the day he started the system is the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. When our savior established this great system and secret, only his twelve disciples were with him, and he did not reveal it to all the people who were following him as before. This is the reason why the Church still presents it with a veil and honor. When our Lord was sacrificed on the cross, in order to cover Him, the sun was dark the moon was covered with blood and the stars dropped down like withered fruit like chilies . Even the angels of heaven dare not touch the sacrifice, for this is given only to the priests.
 
The Holy Communion is called a mystery. Our Lord Jesus Christ took the bread, blessed it, consecrated it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "This is my flesh." Therefore, it is a great mystery that the bread is changed into the flesh of God the Son  (the flesh of God) and the wine is the blood of God the Son  (blood of God), that is why it is called the mystery. (Matthew 26:26, Mark 14:22) Even today, the priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat, and they prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread into the flesh of God and the wine into the blood of God, the authority of the priest, the word of God, and through the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God) and the wine into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God). This makes the Holy Communion a mystery because it is hidden from the unbeliever, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. In addition, visible service is given the secret of invisible grace.
 
Major Points that we need to understand before receiving Holy Communion
 
- We must believe without doubt that the bread and wine are changed into the body and blood of Jesus Christ. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body..this is my blood, drink. (Matthew 26:26)

(Part 2 to be continued )👇

--- id:703 | date:2023-03-01T21:19:01 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  2 (Cont'd)

- It is necessary to believe that the Holy Communion is given to heal the stain of sin and to heal the wound of sin. He said, "Drink of it, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.'" (Matthew 26:27)

- It must be acknowledged that it leads to eternal life. "Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day" (John 6:53).
 
- All those who partake of the Holy Communion must believe that Christ is with them, that they live together with Christ, that His flesh is united with their flesh, and their blood is united with His blood, and that their God is united with them by grace. (He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives with me, and I live in him" (John 6:56).

- It is necessary to repent from past sins, confess, return and guard against future sins. "After that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God." (Mark 1:14) The Kingdom of God refers to His Holy Body and His Precious Blood.
 
- There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion. From the day we were baptized on the 40th and 80th day after birth, where by we become being children of God and received the Holy Communion, we should not stay away from the Holy Communion since then until the end of our lives. It is a great mistake to think of youth as sinfulness in itself or a life unfit for the sacrament, and to think that we should  receive only in infancy and youth. There is no set age for approaching the Holy Communion and not approaching. The only thing that keeps us away from the Holy Communion is if we are highly involved in a particular sin and that we still do now and then being unable stop it. We should take a gap and and make sure to be committed to stop that particular sin first.  Unbelief should not be admitted to sin without repentance. "And now, says the Lord, return to me with all your hearts, fasting, weeping and wailing" (Acts 2:12).
 
 
- Husband and wife should receive Holy Communion together at the first time. If a husband and wife have not received the sacrament together before, it is not allowed for them to receive it separately or one side alone. But after they once received it together, they have already confirmed their unity in flesh and spirit, they can be receive separately. 
 
- In general, because our salvation Jesus Christ died for all, it is a wrong attitude to take the difference between married and single, race, color, sex and age. A person should live by receiving Holy Communion from his childhood until he gets married, when he gets married (together with his husband/wife), and after marriage until his death.
 
Points We  Need to know upon Preparation to receive Holy Communion
 
 
1.       Prepare with absolute faith. We should believe that what we receive is the holy body and precious blood of our Lord, who died on the cross of Calvary on Friday for the world's salvation. In addition, we should strengthned our belive saying to our self :- " I will find forgiveness through repentance for the sins I committed; I will find the strength to be protected from future sins, Christ is in me and I will live in Christ, I will find eternal salvation, I will be protected from a sick body and a sick soul." Saying this, we need to prepare with complete faith and always repent from sin before being anointed and prepare to receive it with faith.
 
(Part 2 to be continued)👇

--- id:704 | date:2023-03-01T21:25:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  3 (Cont'd)

2.       If those receiving Holy Communion are married, they should abstain from sexual intercourse for 3 days before receiving Holy Communion. Sexual intercourse on permitted days in marriage is not a sin, but since it is an act of the flesh , so this period is also one of the forbidden days in terms of giving respect to the sacrament.
 
3.       Anyone who repents and is freed from his sins should keep his heart away from revenge and his body away from wrongdoing.

4.       In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food and water, and wait until the feeling of food being removed from the stomach.

5.       If one sees inappropriate dreams, they will not receive Holy Communion that day. Also, if there is bleeding on anypart of a body, bleeding wound,  or if vomited, or if flys like a mosquito bite entered our the mouth or nose, it is not possible to receive on that day.

6. On the eve of the day we plan to receive Holy Communion, we should take a bath and clean what we wear.

7. Before starting the mass, it is necessary to attend the church and properly follow /consecrate the mass. We should be present before Liturgy starts, and ideally attend the services before that as well. 

8. A woman should  not receive until 7th days of her menstruation. Then she washes her body and can receives on the 8th day or after then. Also at the time of childbirth she does not receive it until he day of the Christening of the child. "If a woman gives birth, it means 80 days, if she gives birth to a boy, it means 40 days" (Leviticus 12:1-5)

Points we need to know when we present at Church to receive Holy Communion

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:736 | date:2023-03-02T21:06:42 ---


--- id:737 | date:2023-03-02T21:06:48 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Eucharist  
 
(Part 4)

Respected and beloved John's repentant website members, who follow the Orthodox lesson and spiritual counsel  which we serve to provide in a daily basis; It is to be recalled that, we sent a series of sections on the basic points on the subject. Today, we have sent you the next part as follows, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.
 
1.       A person who is not present when the Liturgy begins or who doesn't follow it thoroughly by being present for the whole service is not allowed to receive the Eucharist. Likewise, a priest cannot serve in Liturgy if he isn't present before it starts. Therefore, when we plan to receive the Eucharist, we should make sure to arrive at the church before the Liturgy begins.

2.       It is necessary to focus our thoughts on the Liturgy, approach in fear of God, and most importantly, we should approach in an absolute belief to get salvation for our body and soul in the Holy Eucharist

3.       If you know the prayer to be prayed when you receive Holy Communion, you should say it in heart, or else, we should approach it in the fear of God by thinking repeatedly in our hearts that this is the flesh and blood of Christ. In the same way, when receiving it, you should say 'Amen' once on the body and twice on the blood. (Mass Apostles)

4.       According to the order of the Church, from the bishops to the deacons, to the faithful, everyone receives the Holy Communion in line according to their rank.

5.       Once after receiving the Holy flesh and blood of Jesus Christ, you should drink Holy water. This holy water is served right there for those who received Eucharist, and it represents the water that flowed from our Lord's right side while he was pierced by a spear as he was on the cross.  Then, you should cover your mouth because it helps to remember that we shouldn't discuss earthly things before we eat something (Fit Men 13 Krista 65).

6.       If possible, it is preferable for the receiver of Holy Communion to be accompanied by someone.  But this is not an obligation or a law written by the church, but from the point of view of having someone by his side to help facilitating things so that he does not face challenges. 

8.       Those who do not believe and didn't take lesson about the Holy Communion are forbidden to receive it. So, it is necessary to monitor and control this.  (Ft Men 23 Rasub 44) They should first get a lesson from their church teachers or from their father of repetance about the Mystrery of communion in advance and believe that the sacrament they receive is the flesh and blood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

9.       If a penitent person falls ill with a fatal illness before completing the period of penance, he is not prevented from receiving the Eucharist. On the other hand, a person who is in the canon of penance cannot receive Holy Communion without finishing the canon he received, unless he is in a life-threatening illness.
 
10.   A person who is tormented by a demon, a sick person, is not prevented from receiving Holy Eucharist. (Ft Men 13)
 
The precautions a Christian should take on the day he receives Holy Communion, and the Christian life he should have in his future life:
 
(Part 5 Continues)👇

--- id:738 | date:2023-03-02T21:22:02 ---
About the Holy Eucharist  
 
(Part 5)

The precautions a Christian should take on the day he receives Holy Communion, and the Christian life he should have in his future life:
 
1.       On the day a Christian receives Holy Communion, he should not wash his body with water, he should not take off his clothes and be naked, he should not draw blood from his body.
 
2.        He should not do hard work that can cause fluid (sweat) on our body, he should not walk a long way (because this is also considered work).
 
3.       Even if we live in a married life, it is necessary to abstain from sexual intercourse 3 days before receiving Holy Communion and 2 days after receiving Holy Communion. 
 
4.       He should not eat too much, drink intoxicating drinks that disturb what we have eaten and drunk.
 
5.       On the day we received Holy Communion, it is forbidden to cut nails, shave hair, bow and kneel, spit, bathe in water, and change clothes before the end of the day. (Liturgy No. 166) We can change our cloths at the evening after 6:00pm, as it is considered as the next day.

6.       if a person experiences nose bleeding , vomit, bodily bleeding, wounds, and a gnat that enters his mouth by Being careless or due to not taking appropriate care on the day of receiving the Holy Communion,  he should tell this to his penitent  father and  he should repent. And he cannot receive the Holy Communion again without performing his penance.  
 
7.       It is forbidden to go to Court and argue on the day you receive Holy Communion. (Council of Nicaea) In general, one should not go to a public place where there is an argument, argue with someone, talk with hard words, do work that provokes anger, and such other things after communion on that day.
 

8.       Before we receive Holy Communion, we should ask for forgiveness and be cleared of our sins of enmitity and revenge through repetance; and promise not to return back on it. So, now after receiving Holy Communion, we should refreain by far from argument, dispute and grudge. We should  be more committed to stay back from being offended, rebuked, or quarreled with. Even if it happens being out of control, we should ask for forgiveness, let go of grudges, repent and accept it as it should be. Be it from your family or social life, you should stay away from this type of situation as much as possible and spend everything patiently so that you don't have ideas that bring resentment and quarrels. We should live in love with everyone.
 
9.       After receiving Holy Communion, we should refrain from any sinful activity, such as adultery, murder, theft, gossip, addiction, fraud, lying, and the like. 
 
10.   After receiving Holy Communion, it is appropriate to listen to the word of God, go to church regularly, pray, fast, prostrate, and generally live a spiritual life and Christian behavior.

11.   It is necessary for us to have a regular prayer program in our personal life. Because the main spiritual struggle that we can do is through prayer so that Satan does not fight and deprive us of the blessings we have received through the Holy Communion.
 
12.   In general, it is appropriate to know that when we live bounded by the Holy Communion, it is never appropriate to go to a place that is contrary to spiritual life and to associate with a situation that exposes us to sin. We should fight against all the evil temptations and sin.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:740 | date:2023-03-03T20:40:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy Eucharist  
 
(Continued)👆

The Precautions and Christian Life a Believer Should Follow Before and After Receiving Holy Communion.

Holy Communion signifies a commitment to follow the Orthodox Church's teachings, which should inspire us to perform good works and acts of charity. It is not a reward, but a means to receive God's grace. Preparation through confession and repentance is crucial before partaking. Holy Communion symbolizes the union between the believer and Christ, affirming our commitment to His teachings.

The main reason why we should approach Holy Communion with spiritual diligence is not because the Son of God, His holy body, or His precious blood can be defiled by anything else, but rather because we are united with His flesh and blood. We must always strive to live in a manner that avoids the obstacles that Satan, who is jealous of our salvation, places in our way to tempt us and lead us into sin. In order to save ourselves from sin, we must participate in the holy ceremony of receiving the flesh and blood of Christ, which we take for our eternal salvation. We must spend our lives in faith and conduct, doing righteous works. Christian vigilance is necessary because Satan often throws subtle obstacles in our way.

If we stumble and fall into sin after receiving Holy Communion, we must repent and confess our sins to the priest. We should stop receiving Holy Communion for the time being, complete our penance, and seek advice and guidance from the priest before resuming Holy Communion. Once we begin to receive Holy Communion, we should avoid sins and offenses that would prevent us from approaching it. If we commit a sin that should not be repeated after receiving Holy Communion, we have dishonored this great sacrament and must repent and work to strengthen our spiritual purpose.

We should not take repentance lightly or assume that we can continue to repeat the same offense. We must strive to control our thoughts and emotions, live steadfastly in morals and faith, and quickly repent if we fall into sin. We must constantly strive to strengthen our spiritual purpose in order not to be separated from the Holy Communion.

In addition, there are certain rituals and beliefs that may be common in some places but are not in accordance with the Church's canon and tradition. When we encounter doubt or confusion, we should seek guidance from the Church fathers, teachers, and scholars to clarify the true teachings of the Church. We should not be led astray by beliefs or practices that are outside of the Church's system. As St. Paul advised Timothy, "Avoid godless chatter, because those who indulge in it will become more and more ungodly" (2 Timothy 2:16).

 
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:742 | date:2023-03-04T20:30:03 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾About #Law, #Faith and #Conduct

Are we justified by keeping the law or by faith alone? Righteousness, faith, conduct

Beloved and esteemed brethren, who follow the orthodox teachings that we impart on the John's Repentance website, we humbly present to you an important lesson on the topic of Law, Faith, and Conduct.

As followers of Christ, we are called to live a life that is both righteous and pleasing in the eyes of our Lord. The question often arises, are we justified by keeping the law or by faith alone? We must remember that the foundation of righteousness is indeed faith, but faith without conduct is futile. As it is written in the Holy Scriptures, "Faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead" (James 2:17).

The law is an integral part of our lives, for it brings justice and condemnation to those who transgress it. If we are obedient and keep the law, we shall be justified, but if we refuse and rebel, we shall be devoured by the sword. The prophet Isaiah confirms this truth when he proclaims, "If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land: But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it" (Isa. 1:19-20).

Furthermore, we must not forget that our conscience, which is the spiritual law within us, guides us towards righteousness. It is through our conscience that we do good deeds and follow the moral laws that are ingrained in us. This serves as a reminder that there is one supreme God who rewards both the righteous and the wicked according to their deeds and judges impartially. As Saint Paul writes, "For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves" (Romans 2:14-14).

In the Orthodox Tewahedo doctrine, conduct is given the highest priority after religion. Conduct is inseparable from faith. As Saint Jacob reminds us, "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him?" (James 2:14). We are called to feed the hungry, sympathize with the bereaved, receive guests, give to one another, visit the sick, preach the gospel to the prisoners, and live in love. These are the hallmarks of Christian ethics, as exemplified in Matthew 25:15-30.

As followers of Christ, we are called to be the salt of the earth, and to stay away from the temptations of fleshly and worldly desires. We must turn away from revenge, malice, deceit, materialism, impurity, adultery, idol worship, and the burden of sin, and return to a good nature. As it is written, "Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account" (Matthew 5:11). Let us take up our crosses and follow Christ, for in Him, we shall find rest for our souls (Matthew 11:29).

Morality is the practical manifestation of our faith. If faith alone were sufficient, then even the demons, who are creatures of God, would have believed and testified that Christ is the Son of God.

As it is written in the Holy Gospel, "When the evil spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, saying, 'You are the Son of God.'" (Mark 3:11) "And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and bowed down to him, shouting with a loud voice and saying, "Jesus, son of the Most High God, what have I to do with you? I swear by God that you will not torture me. "Come out of this man, you unclean spirit" (Mark 5:5-8).

In his message, the apostle Saint James said, "And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God." (Jas 2:19)

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:743 | date:2023-03-04T20:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

As we understand from this, the devil also believes and trembles, but he does not perform good works. Therefore, a person who claims to be a Christian must not only have faith but also perform good works. The one who obeys God's commandments and lives accordingly will be saved from eternal judgment. "Whoever wants to follow me must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me." This means that "carrying the cross" is the suffering we endure because of our Christian faith while living in the world. "In this world, you will have trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world" (John 16:33).

At that time, the holy apostles who heard these words lived by carrying the cross, enduring the sufferings that came with living a Christian life and emerging victorious. They "persevered through many tribulations to enter the kingdom of God" (Acts 14:22). The journey of Christianity is full of suffering, just like the journey of Calvary. We must resist the desires of the flesh, live for the will of the soul, and fight against the world and the devil. We must persevere to the end, traveling along the narrow path and winning the crown of glory. As it is written, "Be faithful even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life" (Revelation 2:10).

In today's world, which is full of evil, social, psychological, and political problems, Christians, who are the seeds of Christ, must be the solution with their good Orthodox morality. "Turn from evil and do good; then you will dwell in the land forever" (Psalm 34:37).

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:745 | date:2023-03-05T20:30:29 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Eucharist  
 
(Part 7)

Additional Explanation About the Holy Communion

1.    "He who has the intention of fornication, let him not approach the sacrament; he that is unclean, let him not come near..." These are words found in the proclamation of the great prayer mass, whereby the main priest proclaims upon washing his hands with water before entering the fruit-Mass. Due to the misinterpretation of this message in the proclamation, many believers do not dare to approach the Holy Communion, and even those who came prepared refrain from receiving it. The main reason for this is either their incorrect interpretation of the declaration or not having received the correct teaching of the Church.

The majority assume that they are told not to approach the Holy Communion unless they are clean and free from the thought of adultery. They question how it is possible for a person to be clean to this extent and say that it may only happen when they are old. Therefore, many young people run away from the Holy Communion. But what we are ordered to do is to run away from adultery, not from the Holy Communion. "Flee fornication" 1 Cor 6:18. The purpose of this decree is to warn a person not to approach the sacrament without understanding and receiving enough teaching about the Holy Communion, without refraining from sin, and without repenting. So, impure means one who has not confessed their sins before the priest, who has not learned about the Holy Communion, and who has not completed the penance given. In general, it is inappropriate to accept without repentance.

2.    There are people who say that an unmarried person should not receive Holy Communion. Their reason is that an unmarried person may fall into adultery and defile their body because it is not determined by law. Their point of view may be logical, but their solution is wrong. Basically, there is no right or law that guarantees the commission of sin simply because you are young. In fact, the word is "Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth" (Ecclesiastes 12:1). Therefore, it is better to protect, teach, advise, and discipline them so that they do not commit adultery in the first place, rather than keeping them away from the Holy Communion. The word of God says: "All the sins committed by a person who flees from fornication are outside the body. He who commits adultery sins against his own body." Or don't you know that your body, which you received from God, is the temple of the Holy Spirit who dwells in you?" (1Cor 5:18-20). Basically, whether a person is married or not, they should live a life free from sin. If it is adultery, then they should be taught and counseled to be ready to accept it while maintaining their purity.

Blindly concluding that an unmarried person does not deserve to receive Holy Communion is not a solution except to confuse the believer and create a wrong view. Nor is it the teaching of the Church. What the church teaches is that every Christian should receive the body and blood of Christ every week.

If we understand the Holy Communion well, it should be celebrated every Sunday and on major holidays if possible. At the very least, it is appropriate to receive the flesh and blood every forty days. Especially, it is appropriate to receive on the birthday of Jesus, baptisms, Thursday prayers, Easter, Mount Tabor, and other holy and Anglican holidays.

When we approach the Holy Communion and the house of God

(Conttinues)

--- id:746 | date:2023-03-05T20:33:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

When we approach the Holy Communion and the house of God, it is preferable to have a full garment that is used exclusively for this purpose. By doing so, we show respect and perfect preparation, and sincere devotion and fear of God within us. After using the garment, it can be washed and reused for the next time we approach the Holy Communion. However, we should not forget the poor Christians who may not have special or extra clothes. They can wash and reuse their existing clothes without needing to buy a new one. No one should be kept away from the Holy Communion because they cannot afford special clothes.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:748 | date:2023-03-06T20:32:29 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Fasting

"It is good if your hearts are steadfast in grace, not in food, for those who work by it are not profited." - Hebrews 13:9-10

Dear and respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual service conveyed on John's Repentance website, today we share an important lesson on the topic of fasting. We urge you to read and learn from it.

Religion is manifested through works or conduct, and ritual is the foundation of religion. Fasting, prayer, prostration, almsgiving, offerings, and other spiritual activities are ways we practice our religion.

Fasting is the time when a person abstains from food on a certain day at a certain time, controls their body, repents, approaches God, beseeches Him, kneels before Him with a pure heart, and prepares to receive the Creator's mercy (Psalm 34:13, Daniel 10:2-3). Fasting is a time when we communicate with God and sow spiritual seeds.

As the saying goes, "Fasting is the mother of prayer, the sister of righteousness, the source of tears, and the foundation of all good deeds." Just as overeating and drinking is the basis for sin, fasting is the basis for all inheritance. Fasting gives strength and helps the soul in times of temptation. Man is often tempted by his own desires, but fasting is an important ritual that helps to subjugate the will of the body to the will of the soul. Religion is something that manifests itself in works.

A fasting person's will submits their body to the will of their soul, becomes stronger for prayer and thanksgiving, and increases their relationship with God. One who has a good relationship with God will gain spiritual strength and befriend the holy angels who are known for defeating the enemy, the devil. Holy angels always help this person and will not let them fall in the victory of the devil. As Saint David explained, "The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them." (Psalm 33:7). Our Lord Jesus Christ also taught us the benefits and importance of fasting, saying, "You cannot defeat the devil except by prayer and fasting" (Mark 9:29).

Fasting is not just abstaining from food and drink, but also preventing the tongue from speaking evil, the hands from committing evil deeds, the conscience from thinking evil thoughts, the feet from going to evil places (witchcraft, drunkenness, singing), and the eyes from seeing things that cause carnal lust, lust, and immorality. "Let the eyes be clean, let the tongue be clean" (Jared Dgwa). "Turn your eyes away from worthless things" (Psalm 18:37). In general, when we fast, we should refrain from evil deeds and enjoy spiritual blessings.

To perform spiritual activities, it is necessary to be a spiritual person. Spirituality means rejecting the devil's advice, giving up the will of the flesh, and prioritizing the will of God over the material needs of the conscience. Therefore, it is important to let go of physical desires to become a spiritual person. This is fasting. Fasting means giving up, forbidding, and abstaining. Without fasting, it will be difficult to defeat the devil, control oneself, and submit to God's will. Therefore, standing on the foundation of religion, we should worship God with prayers, prostrations, and thanksgiving, and achieve victory through fasting.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:749 | date:2023-03-06T20:41:41 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Fasting (Part 2)

Fasting is the first of all laws.

According to the experts of the Church, fasting started during the time of Adam and Eve. One of the things that God commanded Adam, the first man, was "Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat: But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." (Genesis 2:16-17) This is when God established the ritual of fasting for Adam. It also shows that food is the basis of sin, and fasting is the foundation of life.

Even though the tree was appealing to eat and unappealing to the eyes, it was necessary to patiently fast and conquer it. This would have resulted in eating the tree of life.

All the things that our God and Savior Jesus Christ did when He came to this earth were works of salvation. Christ fasted to pay off the debt that Adam brought through food. In order to be an example for us, He showed us the work of righteousness and instructed us to lead by it so that we do not get confused as to who will show us righteousness. He strengthened our fasting by command and practice and became an example for us to fast. To mutilate even one of the redemptive works that He did for our salvation is a crime. To show that we can defeat our enemy, the devil, through fasting and prayer, He fasted for 40 days and 40 nights in the desert and taught us in practice by defeating the devil who defeated Adam. (Matthew 4:1-11, Mark 1:12-13, Luke 4:1-13) The apostles followed in the footsteps of their Lord. After the Holy Spirit descended upon them, they deployed to different parts of the world and prayed together before they began to teach the gospel.

God has given those who believe in Him to be like Him. On the contrary,  Jesus Christ, God manifested in the flesh said. "I tell you the truth, whoever believes in me, the works that I do, he will also do; He will do more than that," as He taught in John 14:12. He made the apostles, saints, and righteous people who believed in Christ to imitate Him until death. Saint Paul advised us by saying, "Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ." (1 Corinthians 11:1).

Therefore, even though we fast voluntarily, believing that it is good for our souls, it is appropriate to know that fasting is a commandment given to us by God. "Now says the Lord: Return to me with all your hearts, with fasting and with weeping and wailing." (Joel 2:12-13)

Fasting precedes all the mysteries.

In order to receive the sacraments in a religious order, fasting is necessary and obligatory. For example, before approaching the Holy Communion, before performing the sacraments, etc., one should fast.

Fasting is a gift from the Creator, God.

If you notice the grace and blessings we receive through fasting, fasting is indeed a special gift given by Almighty God, who is the creator of the body and soul, who knows what is good for the strength and growth of our spiritual life.

Fasting makes us live with God forever.

Prophet Elijah and Prophet Moses were among the fathers who attended to see the divine light on Mount Tabor with our Lord, God and Savior Jesus Christ. They were known for fasting forty days and forty nights. Our Lord fasted for 40 days and 40 nights, neither less nor more than the

Our Lord had also taught us to fast and pray, saying, "When you fast, do not look somber as the hypocrites do, for they disfigure their faces to show others they are fasting. Truly I tell you, they have received their reward in full. But when you fast, put oil on your head and wash your face, so that it will not be obvious to others that you are fasting, but only to your Father, who is unseen; and your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you." (Matthew 6:16-18)

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:750 | date:2023-03-06T20:45:09 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Fasting (part 3)

Fasting is reconciliation with God
 
Adam was reconciled with his Creator through fasting and prayer after he was expelled from Paradise for his transgression. Even after Adam, many people have had their sins forgiven by the power of fasting and prayer, they have been saved from their illnesses, they have received forgiveness and mercy from their Creator, and their lives have been extended.

Moses received the tablets (the ark) containing the Ten Commandments after fasting for forty days and forty nights (Exodus 34:28, Deuteronomy 9:9-12). Joshua, who led the people of Israel for 40 years, stopped the sun in Gibeon and distributed the inheritance to the Israelites by fasting.

Nehemiah, Ezra, Samuel, and Esther, who reconciled with God by begging for their people and the people of Nineveh for their wrongdoings through fasting, also used this method. Fasting was one of the ways in which the saints reconciled with God while they were on earth. It should not be surprising if someone who says that they do not accept fasting also says, "Saints do not intercede."

Fasting enhances the vitality of the soul

During fasting, Christians increase their energy and strength. This is much more than physical strength. Those who started practicing yoga outside of Christianity's teachings had "fasting" as their first rule to gain the energy of the soul.

So, how can we Christians who call on God with absolute faith not have more power and strength? When Saint Jared explained the benefits of fasting, so that the soul can be cleansed from all the diseases of sin, he said, "Fasting heals the wounds of the soul and silences all the desires of the flesh."

Fasting makes us strive for spiritual works

A person who is fasting has the ability to connect themselves with the Creator and do other important things better than ever before. Fasting is useful for understanding the feelings of hungry people, extending hands to those in need, offering complete prostration, and doing other acts of charity. A humble mind and abstinence from sin will be fruitful during our fasting. And if our fasting is not accompanied by these works, it will be lacking. Another thing is that the holy fathers and mothers we know in the history of the church taught deep and spiritual lessons during fasting.

Fasting without prayer, fasting without almsgiving, and fasting without prostration is like food without salt and a river without liquid water. The book says, "Prayer is good with fasting, almsgiving, and righteousness" (Tobit 12:8). We may appear spiritual because we fast, but the enemy does not want to see us receive all these blessings, so he keeps us away from the fasting system. Therefore, when Satan grumbles in your stomach to break the fast, do not break bread or drink water for him. Because every time Satan finds a small gap, he licks it like a snake and expands it, racing to break down our spiritual fence.

Fasting helps to maintain the health of the body

During fasting, the parts of our body related to digesting food, such as the stomach, intestines, and gall bladder, get rest. The more food we eat, the harder it is for these and other organs to digest food and deliver nutrients to our body parts. This leads to diabetes and related health problems. But a healthy person will have a healthy and light body. This helps them perform religious rituals easily and do their work without difficulty.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:752 | date:2023-03-07T20:37:02 ---


--- id:753 | date:2023-03-07T20:37:05 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Repentance 

Repentance is an integral part of the Christian faith, and it is a necessary step for individuals seeking to reconcile with God. The concept of repentance is not limited to the New Testament but is also present in the Old Testament, where the prophets called on the Israelites to repent and turn away from their wicked ways.

Repentance is a process that involves acknowledging one's sins, seeking forgiveness, and committing to change. It requires a humble heart and a willingness to confess one's wrongdoing. In the New Testament, John the Baptist urged the people to "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand" (Matthew 3:2). Jesus also emphasized the importance of repentance, saying, "I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance" (Luke 5:32).

Repentance is not just a one-time event but a continuous process of turning away from sin and towards God. It involves a change of heart and mind, leading to a transformation of one's behavior. This change is only possible through the power of the Holy Spirit, which helps believers to overcome their sinful desires and live a righteous life.

Repentance is also a prerequisite for forgiveness. In the Bible, God promises to forgive those who repent and turn away from their sins. King David, for example, repented of his sin with Bathsheba and received forgiveness from God (Psalm 51). The Apostle Peter also encouraged his listeners to repent and be baptized for the forgiveness of their sins (Acts 2:38).

Repentance is not just a personal act but also a communal one. In the book of Jonah, the prophet warned the people of Nineveh to repent, and they responded by humbling themselves and turning away from their wickedness. The prophet Jeremiah also called on the people of Israel to repent and turn back to God (Jeremiah 3:12-13).

Finally, repentance is an essential part of the Christian journey, as it helps believers to grow in their faith and relationship with God. It is through repentance that Christians can experience God's grace and mercy and draw closer to Him. As the Apostle Paul wrote, "Godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret, but worldly sorrow brings death" (2 Corinthians 7:10).

Dear members of John's Repentance page, in conclusion we say to you that repentance is a vital aspect of the Christian faith, and it is essential for believers seeking to reconcile with God. It involves acknowledging one's sins, seeking forgiveness, and committing to change. Repentance is a continuous process, leading to a transformation of one's behavior and a closer relationship with God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:757 | date:2023-03-08T20:30:50 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Fasting (Part 4)

In our church system, fasting is divided into three parts, namely:

1. Proclamation Fasting (Associational Fasting): This type of fasting is a mandatory fast that every Christian must observe. It is a fast that the church proclaims to all believers to fast for a specific time and for a known reason, and believers fast according to the proclamation.

2. Repentance Fasting: Repentance fasting is a type of fasting that people who have wronged God and fallen into sin observe when they repent of their wrongdoing, confess their sins to their spiritual guide, and fast under their guidance.

3. Voluntary Fast (Private Fast): This type of fast is observed by some sincere Christians who are devoted to God. They fast privately (in secret) without letting others know about it (without displaying pharisaical behavior) in order to receive more grace and blessings from their Creator. In this way, many voluntarily fast year after year, eating only enough to stay alive.

The Seven Fasts 

According to the canon of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, there are seven laws of fasting. They are:

Major Lent (Fasting of Jesus)
Fasting of Nineveh
Fasting of Gad
Fasting on Wednesdays and Fridays
Fasting of the Prophets
Fasting of the Apostles
Fasting of the Migration (Fasting of Maryam)
The duration of fasting during these fasting seasons is determined by spiritual justice. For example, Wednesdays and Fridays are fasted until nine o'clock, during the first week of Lent until twelve o'clock, from Holy Monday to Nicodemus Friday until eleven o'clock, and during Semune Passion until one o'clock in the afternoon (or for a total of 13 hours). (Source: Zena Church newspaper, 50th year, No. 146, May 1988)

We use the term "personal fasting of the will" to refer to private fasting, while the term "fasting of the decree" refers to the legal fast that is a spiritual duty of all Christians. However, this does not conflict with the fact that we worship God as we please. We should understand that human beings are creatures with free will to do what they like and leave what they dislike.

The decree fasts are known to everyone, as the name itself indicates that the proclamation fasts are for a specified number of days and until a certain time of the day. Therefore, even if those who are fasting publicly declare that they are fasting, their praise will not be in vain. In fact, they are considered to have preached that it is the season of fasting and that all Christians should fast. This is one of the differences between public and private fasts. When a person fasts privately, no one should know about it except his penitent father and himself. Therefore, it is preferable for a person who voluntarily fasts with a personal purpose and decision to be careful not to expose himself to vain praise. Until the end of his fast, he should enter a monastery, close himself in a cave, and fast while communicating with God in complete inspiration and silence. Our Lord Jesus Christ said, "When ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; That thou appear not unto men too fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly." The scholars of the church teach that this teaching refers to voluntary fasting instead of public fasting. (Matthew 6:16)

(continued) 👇🏾

--- id:758 | date:2023-03-08T20:34:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Fasting (Part 5)

When we fast, we should not do it to show others, but rather to please God. However, even if we don't talk about our fast during the proclamation of the fast, it is still known that we are fasting because the church has proclaimed it and we are part of the church. Even if it is known to others, our praise will not be in vain unless we seek it or do it intentionally.

During fasting, we should seek guidance from the fathers who teach us about the heavenly realm and the Gospel. We should also avoid spending time with friends who encourage us to indulge in the desires of the flesh, as well as foods, drinks, situations, and places that arouse the desires of the flesh. Our God, who is the creator of all laws and blessings, told the people of Israel the proper way to fast, "Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?" (Isaiah 58:7) In addition to this, the phrase "to cut your bread for the hungry" indicates that fasting should be accompanied by giving to those in need. When God reprimanded the Israelites who fasted without keeping the fast, He said, "Behold, on the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers. Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to be heard on high." (Isaiah 58:3-6) When we fast, we should avoid wrongdoing and seek spiritual blessings.

Some contemporaries, who are more concerned with their physical bodies than their souls, claim to know that since the Lord has commanded us to fast, He has not specified the time and place for us to fast. However, we listen to the apostles and teachers based on what our Lord Jesus Christ said to the apostles, "And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age." (Matthew 28:20) We are guided by the Holy Spirit and accept the guidelines for fasting, eating, praying, and following the church's decision. "For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope." (Romans 15:4) We follow the system that the apostles and righteous fathers have written for us.

May the Holy God's name be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:760 | date:2023-03-09T20:37:13 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #marriage 

👉 Question:  When looking for a partner to be in a relationship with, is physical attraction another important factor to consider in addition to the person being a Godly man? Or are we supposed to not give it a lot of weight? 

Answer: Grooming, self-care, and physical preparation are important to look good, but attraction is mainly possible through spiritual life, not physical appearance. Through religion, one can attract others. If one is strong in religion, she/he can attract a non-religious person to their religion.

Looking at our forefathers, they raised many people from the abyss of sin through their religion and made them know God. They did not attract them with carnal thoughts and desires, clothes, rhetorical style, makeup, or appearance. For example, St. Justinas drew Kostrianos to Christ and made him become a bishop, not through her dress style, words, or physical appearance, but because of her religion.

Since St. Justinas was religious, she prayed. When demons were sent to kill her, they failed, but when she prayed, she burned them up with her prayers. Eventually, the one who sent the demons asked, "What kind of God is Justina's God?" and stopped worshipping his gods. He burned his books and came to God. St. Justinas captivated him through her perseverance and strength in her religion, not through her speech.

Therefore, a religious person can attract a weak person who does not have a religion. A religious person lives in love, has compassion for others, speaks softly but not harshly, does not offend people, is sympathetic to people, but does not speak harsh words to people. Dressing up or decorating the flesh is not a fundamental issue, but religion is the foundation.

During the engagement period, there are important issues that should be thought about and prioritized over carnal thinking. The first is religion. Religion is the foundation, and the rest are the roof and the wall. Just as a house can bear more when its foundation is strong, we can bear other matters when we understand our religion properly and are firm in our religion.

A religious person also needs morals. Faith without morals is dead. Therefore, ethics is also important. A religious person bows down, prays, fasts, is God-fearing, humble, obedient to others, not commanding, and imitates Christ. Humility is important, and those who humble themselves are exalted.

A person who has religion and morals sees people with love and has no hatred. They feel sorry for people, think for people before themselves, and say, "Let's eat/drink together." The way to attract people is through these basic religious aspects and ethics.

Age, health, a house, clothes, and food are next considerations, not the primary ones.

Therefore, one can attract people and make them love us not by pretending but by being. Holding the truth and standing on the truth can make others pay attention to us. The main thing that should be considered and underlined is that the soul should be what God loves and what connects us with God.

Therefore, we should prioritize the soul over physical desires. Carnal desires are only pursued after establishing religion and morality as the foundation. A person who repents, prays, and worships God should prioritize their clothing according to their means and need for shelter, and the rest can follow in order. Religion, fear of God, and ethics should be given the utmost importance. Then, if the couple and their families are willing, with God's blessing, the other factors can be considered, and a priest's advice should be sought. In this context, physical preparation and grooming are important, but they should always be preceded by religion and morality.

May the Holy God's name be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:762 | date:2023-03-10T20:30:08 ---


--- id:763 | date:2023-03-10T20:30:08 ---


--- id:764 | date:2023-03-10T20:30:08 ---


--- id:765 | date:2023-03-10T20:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Prayer 

"Pray unto him that thy way may be made straight" Tobi 4:9

Dear and respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual service conveyed on John's Repentance website, today we share an important lesson on the topic of prayer. We urge you to read and learn from it. 
 
The meaning of prayer is broad and deep:-
 
Prayer is a spiritual bridge through which man can connect with God.

Prayer is a tool of communication between man and God. (Matthew 6:6)

Prayer is a spiritual tool to defeat our enemy Satan.

Prayer is a special application that we ask for strength from the living God.

Prayer is a thanksgiving to God.

Prayer is a way we promise to God secretly that we will do legacy work once our prayer is answered.
 
Prayer is a way for a person to communicate with the Creator through his religion, thanking the Creator and begging for the forgiveness of sins. There is no wall that can prevent Him from hearing our prayers as long as we repent, do His will, and call upon Him with faith and a broken heart. The main skill to have in prayer is a broken heart, which includes: a broken heart, a broken spirit, tears, being humble and  refraining from revenge.
 
Prayer is a special tool through which we communicate with God. For this, we only need a broken heart, and we are not required to have a special speech style like we do when talking to a person. Nor do we have to explain the matter from beginning to end as He knows what we need more than we do. (Romans 1:27) If we speak to him with a pure heart, at any moment, God will listen to our prayers. God doesn't say, "I can't talk to you now, come back another time." He is always near to hear us the moment we come to talk to him.
 
In fact, the basis of prayer is the word of God: "Ask and it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and it will be opened to you." (Matthew 7:7) Prayer is one of the rituals commanded by God. It includes worship, supplication, repentance, intercession, worship, love, vows and forgiveness.
 
As written in Genesis 2:7, God created man and breathed into him the breath of life through his mouth, and he became a living soul.  This living soul thirsts for God. The means for this is prayer. In the prayer, there is religion or believing and trusting. As St. John the Baptist taught us the art of prayer, a person who knows how to communicate with God and communicates with God in the right way will become like an angel from that moment on. No matter how noble or slave or ordinary or lowly or even a king a person is,  this is how the soul is freed from the shackles of the flesh, this is how the conscience is elevated, this is how our abode crosses to heaven, this is how a person despises worldly conduct, this is how one stands before the throne. Through a proper way of Prayer. For God does not look at the beauty of speech or the eloquence of words, but the purity of the spirit. Even if we come with a broken and pure heart and faith, and say what comes to our mind, we will get reply. It is said that "Your heavenly Father knows what you need without asking."
 
After all, the main purpose of prayer is communion with God, so there is no ritual without prayer. In every liturgy there is prayer. It can be said that all the good deeds that people do are prayers. Fathers and scholars say that prostration, almsgiving, repentance, pursuing spiritual education, etc. are classified as prayer. Therefore, when we say that a person prayed, we understand that he begged, thanked, sang, promised, repented, and talked with God. It is inevitable that human beings will offer thanks and praise to the God whom they worship: saying feed me, protect me  from evil and suffering.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:766 | date:2023-03-10T20:33:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

👉About Prayer (Part 2)

We have mentioned that prayer is a special spiritual tool to connect with God. For this to happen, our relationship with God must be continuous and constant. We should adhere to God's commandments and observe fasts in religion and morals. This is why we are commanded to "pray without ceasing" (1 Thessalonians 5:17, Colossians 4:2, Luke 18:1, 21:36, Romans 12:12).

As mentioned in the holy preface of the Gospel and preserved for us in tradition by the Father, before Satan misled Eve, he tried to tempt our father Adam. But when he approached Adam, he found him engrossed in prayer and could not deceive him. Later, when Satan approached Eve at six o'clock in the afternoon, he found her idle and used that vulnerability to deceive her. Therefore, Satan, our arch-enemy, does not rest even for a moment from tempting and misleading us by exploiting our weaknesses. That is why we should not separate from prayer to be able to resist him. As Jesus Christ said, "Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest you enter into temptation" (Luke 22:46).

In the spiritual teachings of our church, prayer is a continuous ritual of worship. "Pray without ceasing, give thanks in all things, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you" (1 Thessalonians 5:17-18). Jesus Christ also taught the apostles that we can cast out demons through fasting and prayer (Matthew 16:20). Satan, who knows this very well, tempts us to stay away from prayer by making us lazy and distracting us. Once he has us in his grasp, he makes us forget to pray when we become comfortable with him. Therefore, as our Lord told us, we should all wake up and pray constantly.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:767 | date:2023-03-11T20:36:58 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Mind of #Christ

Dear and respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual service conveyed on John's Repentance website, today we share an important lesson on the mind of Christ. We urge you to read and learn from it. 

Today, we will be discussing the concept of the "mind of Christ". The book "Thinking Orthodox" by Dr. Eugenia Scarvelis Constantinou provides an excellent resource for exploring this important aspect of Orthodox spirituality.

The "mind of Christ" is a phrase that is used by the Apostle Paul in his first letter to the Corinthians. He writes, "For who has known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ." (1 Corinthians 2:16). In other words, as Christians, we have been given the ability to understand and think in the same way that Christ does.

So, what does it mean to have the mind of Christ? It means to have a way of thinking that is oriented towards God and His will. It is a way of thinking that is characterized by humility, love, and selflessness. In the Orthodox Church, we believe that the mind of Christ is a gift that is given to us through the Holy Spirit.

The mind of Christ is a term that describes the spiritual transformation and renewal of the believer's mind through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. In Orthodox Christianity, this transformation takes place through the process of deification, which means becoming a partaker of God's divine nature (2 Peter 1:4). This process involves a complete transformation of the whole person, including the mind, heart, and will.

The Orthodox Church teaches that the mind of Christ is not simply an intellectual concept or an abstract idea, but a reality that is experienced through a deep relationship with God. This relationship is cultivated through prayer, fasting, and participation in the sacramental life of the Church, which includes the Eucharist, confession, and other rites.

In order to understand the mind of Christ, we must first understand who Christ is and what he came to do. Christ is the Son of God who became human in order to save humanity from sin and death. He did this by offering himself as a sacrifice on the cross and rising from the dead on the third day. Through his life, death, and resurrection, Christ revealed the true nature of God and demonstrated the ultimate example of self-sacrifice and love for others.

The mind of Christ, then, is a way of thinking that is oriented towards God and his will. It is a way of thinking that is characterized by humility, love, and selflessness. To have the mind of Christ means to embrace a way of life that is centered on God and his purposes.

Humility is a key aspect of the mind of Christ. Christ himself exemplified humility in his life and teachings. He taught us to love our enemies, to turn the other cheek, and to serve others. To have the mind of Christ means to embrace this way of life and to be willing to put others before ourselves.

Love is another essential aspect of the mind of Christ. Christ's love for us was so great that he gave his life for us. In the same way, we are called to love others sacrificially. This means being willing to suffer for the sake of others and to put their needs above our own.

Selflessness is also a key aspect of the mind of Christ. Christ taught us to deny ourselves, take up our cross, and follow him. This means putting aside our own desires and ambitions and embracing God's will for our lives. By doing so, we are able to experience the abundant life that Christ promises.

The Orthodox Church teaches that the mind of Christ is not something that can be attained through human effort alone. Rather, it is a gift that is given to us through the Holy Spirit. Through our participation in the sacraments of the Church and our daily spiritual practices, we are able to open ourselves up to the transforming power of the Holy Spirit and to cultivate the mind of Christ within us.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:768 | date:2023-03-11T20:41:44 ---
(Continued)👇

In conclusion, the mind of Christ is a way of thinking that is oriented towards God and his will. It is a way of thinking that is characterized by humility, love, and selflessness. To cultivate the mind of Christ within us, we must be willing to embrace a life of prayer, fasting, and obedience to God's will. May we all strive to have the mind of Christ and to live lives that reflect His love and grace.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:774 | date:2023-03-12T20:34:23 ---


--- id:775 | date:2023-03-12T20:34:23 ---


--- id:776 | date:2023-03-12T20:34:23 ---


--- id:777 | date:2023-03-12T20:34:37 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Prayer (Part 3)

When we pray, we should believe in a good God who hears and answers our prayers. Faith is the foundation. In order to do righteousness, avoid sin, face all the temptations that come to us through the will of the flesh and the devil's tricks, it is necessary to believe in resurrection after death, rest after labor, joy after sorrow, and wearing the crown of victory after suffering. St. Paul said, "Faith is the assurance of things we hope for, and the evidence of things we do not see." He also said, "It is not possible to please God without faith, for he who comes to God must believe that He is, and that He is a rewarder of those who diligently seek Him."

Prayer is a tool to ask for what we want and what we lack, and to thank God for what He has done for us. A spiritual person prays with faith that God will fulfill the things that are important to him in his physical life, as well as in his spiritual life through penance and Holy Communion, to strengthen him in his faith, and to do more than what he is commanded to do.

A person who prays receives spiritual strength from God. "The prayer of a righteous person is very powerful in its work." (James 5:16) "Put on the full armor of God to resist the wiles of the devil... Always pray in the Spirit with all kinds of prayer and supplication." (Ephesians 6:11-18) "Those who love prayer, God gives them rest from Satan who brings them trouble." (Elder Spiritual Essay)

A secret is revealed to a person who prays. "Indeed, the Lord God does nothing unless He reveals His secret to His servants the prophets." (Amos 3:7) The Elder Spiritual Essay 14 says, "Mysteries will be revealed through prayer."

Prayer is a powerful remedy for the forgiveness of sins and the healing of the sick. "Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven." (James 5:14)

Prayer saves us from punishment and suffering. "Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver you." (Psalm 50:15) The apostles say that prayer is not done randomly, but has a system of execution that "all things should be done decently and in order." (1 Corinthians 14:40)

Accordingly, there is a specific time and place for performing prayer. There are seven times of prayer. Psalm 118:164 says, "I will praise You seven times a day because of Your righteous judgments." These seven times of prayer are:

The Prayer of the First Hour: It is done at sunrise, which is the beginning of the day.
The Prayer of the Third Hour: It is done at 9 AM.
The Prayer of the Sixth Hour: It is done at noon.
The Prayer of the Ninth Hour: It is done at 3 PM.
The Prayer of the Evening: It is done at sunset.
The Prayer of the Bedtime: It is done before going to bed.
The Midnight Prayer: It is done at midnight.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:778 | date:2023-03-12T20:34:37 ---
(Continued) 👆

👉 About Prayer (Part 4)

The Seven Times of Prayer (Daily)

(Note: The times written below are in Ethiopian time)

Morning Prayer (Eleven o'clock prayer)
This is the hour when Adam disobeyed God's command; the time when Adam and Eve ate the fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and were exiled from Eden. Later, it was the hour when our Lord stood in front of Pilate and was rebuked to make amends for Adam. "In the morning, Lord, you hear my voice; in the morning, I lay my requests before you and wait expectantly." (Psalm 5:3)

Prayer Three (Three Hour Prayer)
This hour: Adam returned to Paradise after 5500 years of exile. Also, it is the time when our Lady heard the angel Gabriel and conceived the Lord. And the time when the Lord was brought before Pilate and flogged; and it is the time when the Holy Spirit descended on the apostles. "At noon, darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon. And at three in the afternoon Jesus cried out in a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” (which means “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”)" (Mark 15:33-34)

Midday Prayer (Six Hours Prayer)
This is the hour when our Lord drank bitter bile while He was hanged on the cross in Calvary Square; and it was a time when they stripped him of his clothes. "When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. This garment was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. 'Let's not tear it,' they said to one another. 'Let's decide by lot who will get it.' This happened that the scripture might be fulfilled that said, 'They divided my clothes among them and cast lots for my garment.' So this is what the soldiers did." (John 19:23-24)

Afternoon prayer (Nine o'clock prayer)
This is the hour when he separated his holy soul from his glorious body by his own authority and spoke seven words while on the cross. "And at nine o'clock Jesus cried out in a loud voice, 'Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?' (which means 'My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?')." (Mark 15:34)

Evening prayer (Eleven o'clock prayer)
This hour: It is the time when our Lord's body was taken down from the cross and placed in a tomb. "As evening approached, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who had himself become a disciple of Jesus. Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus' body, and Pilate ordered that it be given to him. Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock." (Matthew 27:57-60)

Bedtime prayer
This is the hour when our Lord taught prayer to the apostles. Also, it is the time when Judas led the Jews to arrest Jesus. (Luke 11:1-4, Matthew 26:47-50)

Midnight prayer
This is the hour when our Lord was born, rose to defeat death, and will come to destroy the world. "At midnight the cry rang out: 'Here's the bridegroom! Come out to meet him!'" (Matthew 25:6)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:785 | date:2023-03-13T21:32:02 ---


--- id:786 | date:2023-03-13T21:32:02 ---


--- id:787 | date:2023-03-13T21:32:02 ---


--- id:791 | date:2023-03-13T21:32:42 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Prayer (Part 4)

How, what, and in what way should we pray?

Dear and respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual service conveyed on John's Repentance website, it should be recalled that in the previous series of lessons on the subject, we have tried to explain that prayer is the secret to our relationship with the Creator, and that prayer is our greatest tool and power to save us from the temptations of the flesh and the soul. Today, in part four, we will convey a short message about the ritual of prayer: 1st/ how we should stand for prayer, 2nd/ what we should pray, 3rd/ how we should pray. But in the beginning, when we prepare for prayer, we begin by remembering the spiritual perspective that helps us understand the mystery of true prayer.

The mystery of true prayer is the unity and trinity of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, based on faith in the mystery of the Trinity and the mystery of our incarnation, and taking into account all of God's love and saving work and future hope. The true mystery of prayer, following the mystery of the new covenant, looks to the east; He attends the heavenly prayer. Thinking of the heavenly army who prostrate before the heavenly throne and say "Holy Holy Holy" without ceasing, we should also give thanks to the Holy Church in front of the sanctuary of the Holy Church, which is the image of the heavenly throne. (Revelation 4) Thinking of Christ, the Savior of the world, who was born in the city of David to save us, we praise him with the angels, saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:11-14).

1/ How we should pray

1.1. When we pray, we should stand in fear, respect, and love of God, and renew our lives first through repentance. Because a person must put the fear of God first in his faith. Next, he must sanctify his body and his whole life in a life of repentance in order to thank God in prayer or to ask for what he wants. "The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge." (Prov 1:7) Praying in this approach prolongs our life and brings many blessings.

Because prayer is talking to God, a person who stands for prayer should realize that he is standing in front of God no matter where he is. The army of heaven, the innocent, holy, mighty angels, are trembling and steadfast in holiness, and they always praise God by saying "Holy, Holy, Holy." He is the Creator and Ruler, the Almighty Elshadai, Adonai God. When His power is revealed, the heavens and the earth cannot stand before it, the earth will shake, and the heavens will shake. When His name was called, the Red Sea stood like a wall and overcame the people. When the people of Israel raised their voices and blew their trumpets, the walls of Jericho collapsed. When the Three Holy Children called the name of God, fire became water for them, and Daniel called His name and shut the mouths of the lions. Therefore, when we stand in front of this mighty God and invoke the holy name above all names, we should approach with fear and trembling. God is everywhere, and He is near and not far to those who call Him with proper prayer. "Am I only a God nearby," declares the LORD, "and not a God far away? Can anyone hide in secret places so that I cannot see him?" declares the LORD. "Do not I fill heaven and earth?" (Jer 23:23). Calling his name in vain, however, would be a violation of the law that says, "Do not take God's name in vain."
 
1.2. When we pray, we should pray standing straight.  Our clothing should also be clean and modest and not revealing our bidy. Women should cover their hair. In prayer, when we invoke the name of God, the God who created heaven and earth, the God who rules all creatures, who is the eternal king, above all else, we should bow down to Him with our bodies. When we stand before God the king, we must stand up and pray because he deserves honor.

(continues)👇

--- id:792 | date:2023-03-13T21:37:54 ---
👉 About Prayer (Part 5)

(Continued) 👇

The prophet David, a man of God, said, "In the morning, O Lord, you hear my voice; in the morning I lay my requests before you and wait expectantly." He stood before God in the morning, giving thanks to the Creator and asking for His goodness. (Psalm 5:3)

1.3. When we pray, we should face east. The east is always the manifestation of the Lord, and all good things emerge from the east like the rising sun. Therefore, any priest or layman should stand to the east when praying. The east is a symbol of the Lord and the Holy Virgin Mary, as it is written, "Look to the east." With spiritual justice, it has been decided that we should turn our faces to the east. The Holy Book tells us that God will come from the east in the last days to gather this world and call us in the resurrection, so we should turn to the east and pray.

1.4. When we begin to pray, we should make the sign of the cross on our whole body using our fingers. Before we begin to pray, we cover our faces and our whole bodies with the sign of the cross. This is to put the evil spirit that opposes us in our thoughts and challenges us not to connect with our Creator in prayer, with the power of the cross, to throw it under our feet or to keep it away from us altogether. When we make the sign of the cross, we should start from top to bottom, then from left to right. This is so that the thoughts of darkness can be pushed away from us, and we can walk in the light. We stretch out our index finger and make a cross by folding our middle finger and others and touch our face and our whole body from top to bottom and from left to right. When we pray, we say "Father" on the forehead, "Son" on the chest (heart), "Holy Spirit" on the left shoulder, "One God" on the right shoulder, and invoke the name of the Trinity.

"But if I cast out demons with the finger of God, then the kingdom of God has come to you" (Luke 11:20), because the finger is a manifestation of God's power. Clergy fathers pray with the cross they hold, while lay people should pray by joining the fingers next to the thumb in the shape of a cross as described above. The spiritual secret behind this is as follows:

"In the name of the Father" means that God the Son, Jesus Christ, is the perfect God who was sanctified in heaven together with the Holy Spirit before the world.

Touching the heart with the word "Son" means that "Son" came down from heaven in a different body and took flesh from the body of the Holy Virgin Mary and soul from her soul and was conceived in a perfect union.

Writing from left to right, "The Holy Spirit, the One God" means that the Son of God, Jesus Christ, nailed His hands and feet with nails for us on Friday, and in His resurrection, from left to right, from hell to heaven, from suffering to peace, from death to life, from darkness to light, from sorrow to joy, to testify.

From top to bottom, from left to right, we mean a cross because it is the shape of a cross. Christ saved the world by hanging on the cross. The right is like heaven, and the left is an example of hell. (Article 14 of Justice King)

The times when we make the sign of the cross are as follows:
 
- When we want to pray,
- When we come to a word stated about the cross in the prayer 
– on the foods we eat and drink,
– On the clothes we wear,
– When we sleep; & when we wake up,
-  Before we start any spiritual and physical work, we should make a sign using our finger of the cross in a way discribed above.
 
1.5. We should pray with our eyes fixed on heaven. Because we do not live in despair like heathens or heretics, but we have hope that we will rise above the grave in the resurrection and inherit the heavenly inheritance prepared for us, and to confirm that it is religion and conduct that will enable us to walk uprightly before the Creator, we should open our eyes and pray with a humble mind and an open mind. 

(Continues)👇

--- id:793 | date:2023-03-13T21:44:17 ---
👉🏾 About Prayer (Part 6)

(Continued) 👆

Our main evidence for this is that our Lord Jesus Christ prayed with His eyes to the sky, according to the Evangelist John. (John 11:4)

1.6. When we pray, we should pray with absolute faith. We should pray with a full heart and full faith so that the prayers we offer will reach God first, and we will be able to get the good response we want from the Creator.

Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ said in His Holy Gospel, "Whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours" (Mark 11:24).

Now our Lord Jesus Christ gave them this example that they should always pray without tiring: There was a judge in a city who did not fear God, and there was a widow who came to this judge and asked for judgment every day. It is recorded in the Gospel of Luke that because that widow or poor woman constantly argued with the judge, saying, "Grant me justice against my adversary," he finally accepted her request and gave her a verdict. (Luke 18:1-6)

1.7. Praying with a pure mind and a sincere spirit, free from resentment and revenge, allows us to see God by removing our evil deeds that are a barrier between us and God. Therefore, "the prayer of a spiteful man is like a seed that falls among thorns." It is recorded in the Book of Monks and other books.

1.8. You should gather your thoughts and pray with one heart. When the holy apostles and the first followers of the Lord (120 families) were praying in one place after the Lord's resurrection and ascension, before His death, our Lord Jesus Christ told them that He would send them the Holy Spirit to comfort them. According to the divine word that the Lord revealed to them, the Holy Bible tells us that they received the Holy Spirit while they were praying. (Acts 2:1-4)

1.9. During prayer, you should bow down. We bow when we start and finish the prayer. Also, when we reach a place or article in the word of God that talks about prostration, we should prostrate. (Judges 14) We bow down to the authorities and great people on this earth, let alone our Creator who is the heavenly King. This is because prayer is the line through which we can connect with the Creator through conscience, and we should pray while falling and standing up, saying that even though I am weak and sinful, accept my prayer in Your kindness and forgiveness.

1.10. We should pray for ourselves and others. We Orthodox Christians should pray not only for ourselves but also for our fellow citizens:

For those who are suffering in different ways: 

For those who are sick
For those living in prison
For those who live in the military to protect the peace of the country
For those who live in a foreign country
In general, we should pray for our people living in different challenges and for the country as well. When the prophet Jeremiah said that it is necessary to pray for the country, "But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the Lord on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare." (Jeremiah 29:7)

The Apostle Saint James also taught that we should pray for others, saying, "Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another, that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working." (James 5:16) Moreover, God's word commands us to pray for all creatures, such as the animals, the plants, the flowing river

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:796 | date:2023-03-14T21:37:38 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Using #piano, #guitar and other instruments in the Church. 

Question: I have a question…
Why do we not use instruments like piano, guitars/electric guitars, trumpets, etc. in our Orthodox Tewahdo Church for Mezmurs? I want to understand it better for myself and to have an answer for others when I’m asked. Thank you!

Answer: Every country has its own traditional instruments, whether it is a traditional song or musical instrument.

Firstly, we need to examine each case separately. For instance, in our country, there are instruments used by musicians. Many of them may be the same, but we know how to use the tools in a professional style and adapt them to what is needed. Therefore, we cannot simply judge the instrument with a single perspective.

We all know why these musical instruments, which are products of the age and technology, are in demand. They are evocative and there are many occasions when we are drawn into the emotions of the instruments, to the extent that we are forced into that emotion without even wanting to.

Psalms are praises to God. When we offer a delightful song to God, we submit to God with one heart and one spirit. We cry with inspiration if we can, but we do not laugh, have fun, move our physical bodies or show ourselves to other emotions.

Therefore, the one who submits more conscience to God should submit all of their feelings and spirit to God. For this reason, songs, praises and all the musical instruments used in worship should not be anything other than a mystery that makes us feel connected to God, and that God hears us and we also hear from God. If we all understand this, singing instruments do not need to be modified as we are told in the scriptures. Nor can we say that they need improvement.

If we use these instruments properly, they are sufficient if we apply them according to the commandments and laws of the Holy Book. The important thing is not whether it is an electric instrument, but that we use it to save energy, save time, and make songs that are more audible and influential.

There are harps, lyres, flutes, drums, cymbals, and other musical instruments mentioned in the Bible. However, most of these instruments are not currently being made or used for singing. Nonetheless, it is written in the book, "I will praise God with harps, lyres, flutes, and drums." However, most of these instruments are not currently being made, or used, for singing.

(To be Continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:799 | date:2023-03-15T21:35:48 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Using #piano, #guitar and other instruments in the Church. 

(Part 2) 

(Continued) 👆

Our dear member is asking about modern electric musical instruments which were not previously known in our country, but are commonly used in the world of music. These instruments can produce high-quality sounds, but before discussing their use, it is important to understand why spiritual songs are sung, who sings them, when they are sung, and where they are sung. Orthodox Christians are familiar with these concepts, as Orthodox singing has its own system and standards.

Musical instruments were used to accompany the psalms in the Old Testament, and many of the instruments mentioned in these texts are still used today. The instruments are not restricted or controlled, and people use them for various purposes. While the sound production method of modern instruments is different from the sound production used for singing, many of these instruments are still mentioned in the scriptures.

The biblical hymns were accompanied by various instruments, including the Drum, Tsnasil, Masinko, Krar, Embilta, and Negarit. The holy book instructs us to praise God with these fathers use them to thank God. The sound of these instruments soothes the spirit and brings peace. King David of Israel, who is famous for his psalms, used a harp to soothe Saul, who was possessed by an evil spirit.

In contrast, modern instruments can have a negative effect on people, causing them to behave inappropriately. Music can be like a drug that changes a person's mindset and makes them do things they may later regret. The songs we sing in God's house have a specific structure, and while modern instruments may be banned, their absence does not detract from the spiritual experience.

The Psalms in the Bible contain prayer, supplication, thanksgiving, and repentance. The use of instruments is limited to certain times, such as during fasting when only the singer's voice is used. Our hands and feet can also serve as instruments, but their use is controlled and orderly. The goal of spiritual singing is to connect with God and bring us closer to a life of repentance.

The Levites, priests, and people in the Torah were given a standard for how to sing in the house of God. Mary, the sister of Moses, used a drum to sing "praises, for God" after they crossed the Eritrean Sea and entered the land of Canaan. Over time, traditional spiritual instruments like the ry, harp, and kraar have been incorporated into modern songs along with guitars and other instruments.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:800 | date:2023-03-15T21:40:01 ---
(Part 3)

(Continued) 👆

In the books of Nehemiah and Ezra, musical instruments are mentioned. The Psalms of David, the Book of Kings, and the Book of Chronicles also mention psalms and instruments. Therefore, as our questioner mentioned, there are new musical instruments that were not mentioned in the bible. 

While we Orthodox people sing in church with the grace of God, those in the Protestant world have taken it to a worldly style of music. This means that they may sing for their own physical pleasure, but it is not possible to please God in this way. When we observe their songs, we can see that they are unable to control themselves and are doing something that looks like a dance. Mostly, it is the instrumentation that causes this. It is impossible to say that we are giving thanks to God in such a situation, and even the dress code itself is not appropriate.

Even without going into another mystery, we can understand from what we see and observe that we should not make modern musical instruments a tool for church singing. This is one of the reasons why we say that we should not use musical instruments other than those mentioned in the scriptures. Using this kind of instrument for a young person may not lead them towards their goals and may tempt them. This type of singing, the one that involves jumping and dancing, is not called praise and singing in the name of God, but rather a mockery of God.

However, it is not necessary to say that we should not use any new findings at all. For example, some of the findings we use, such as electricity, which is being used to make the service accessible to us with modern electric tools like speakers and computers. The drum, singer's voice, cymbal, and masinqoun are also amplified. This means that the sound produced by these instruments is more prominent than the sound produced by our own tongue. Since this is done to motivate people for service, we do not say, 'We will not use it at all, or it should not be done, it is a condemnation.'

But if we bring musical instruments that are not used in the service of our church, which we see on the platforms of other faiths and call them spirituality or hymns, we will turn the believer into a worldly person. In praising God, there should be no dancing, no singing with sensuality and joy.

There are songs that we often sing in Mahlet, such as "Mahlete Genbo." It is seen that some young people who are skilled in the craft of Yaredawi Zema are engaging in unwanted things, thinking that they are pleasing God and people. Our forefathers, who knew the benefits and services of singing, opposed and forbid this. When they saw this, they stopped or corrected them. Wherever there are scholars, everything is done in an orderly manner, but jumping and spinning are prohibited.

Our questioner asked a good question. It is good that we discuss and talk about everything. If the questioner is looking for the song tools we have listed above in terms of Bible verses, there are many of them, so we think that the ones we have mentioned above will give them a sufficient answer to their question. We can talk about Bible verses if necessary in the next discussion.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:803 | date:2023-03-16T21:31:14 ---


--- id:804 | date:2023-03-16T21:31:14 ---


--- id:805 | date:2023-03-16T21:31:14 ---


--- id:806 | date:2023-03-16T21:32:18 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Prayer (Part 7)

2/ How and What Should We Pray?

Dear and respected members who follow the Orthodox education and spiritual counseling service that we convey on the website of John's Repentance, continuing from our previous lessons on prayer, we have prepared a lesson for today on how to pray and what to say.

True prayer means a person believing and fearing God, loving and hoping for His will. Prayer is a way for a person to approach his heavenly Father in the Spirit with his whole heart and express his gratitude, repentance, and supplication. In turn, it is a time of meeting between the creature and the creator, a great act of worship where he receives grace and comfort from God.

We have also learned about the conditions of true prayer. However, knowing the order of prayer alone is not enough; the state of our mind is an important factor. True prayer originates in the heart, not the mouth. If the heart is preoccupied with other thoughts and the mouth recites alone, the prayer is worthless. Therefore, when we pray, we should unite our mouth with our heart, and our heart with our mouth, understanding the secret and purpose of the prayer and pray. A person who prays in this way sees God as his father, and God sees him as his son, giving him everything he asks for without disdain, belittling, or disdain. However, if there is pride and self-righteousness in our hearts, or if we just recite the words like an automaton without our heart, it will not be accepted as a Pharisee's prayer. Therefore, it is appropriate for a person who prays to gather his mind, leave earthly thoughts, go to the sky to connect with his heavenly Father, and pray with inspiration. Additionally, he should have a broken conscience and a clear mind, believing that he is truly the son of God, and approach God as his "Father."

The Type and Content of True Prayer

Real prayer is to approach the real heavenly Father to talk to him in the Spirit. He taught us to say "Our Father" (Abune Zebesemayat) as a prayer and made it a prayer.

The Lord not only taught us how to pray for what and to whom but also explained the true nature and content of what we should pray for. He did this so that our prayers would not be like the prayers of the pagans. They think that God is listening to them by repeating useless words and by the number of their words. Therefore, the Lord gave us the prayer "Our Father" (Matthew 6:7,15).

This prayer, which our Lord himself commanded us to pray, appears to be very short in length, but it reveals many things in a few words. The secret is vast and includes many things, covering our physical and spiritual needs. This is a perfect prayer suitable for everyone, a model for all prayers, explaining that we should always pray in this form.

As the perfect God who made this prayer and taught it is our Lord Jesus Christ, the prayer is perfect. It is what the Lord revealed and taught about the divine will that was impossible for a creature to investigate and know with a perfect mind. Therefore, every believer should pray without neglecting it. Each of the words found in the Our Father prayer has a higher meaning and mystery. And every word is holy and godly.

Our Father, who lives in heaven,

1. Hallowed be thy name.
2. Let your kingdom come.
3. Let your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
4. Give us today our daily bread.
5. Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us.
6. Lord, do not lead us into temptation.
7. Save us from all evil

(Continues) 👇

--- id:807 | date:2023-03-16T21:36:01 ---
About Prayer (Part 8)

(Continued) 👆

The prayer mentioned above consists of seven phrases. The first three phrases express gratitude to God, while the remaining four relate to our daily spiritual and physical life as Christians. The purpose of these phrases is to help us lead a righteous Christian life and remain steadfast in our spiritual goals. As these prayers encapsulate the essence of the Gospel, we should practice them with sincerity and humility, offering our prayers to our heavenly Father who sees us in secret. Prayer is a sacrifice that communicates with God, so we should offer ourselves to God with obedience and sincerity. As God knows us better than we do, he chooses and provides only what is necessary and beneficial for us. Just as an earthly father doesn't grant his child everything they ask for, but provides only what is necessary, our heavenly Father has prepared more for us than our earthly father, so we should wait patiently for Him. We should love the giver more than the gift, and keep the prayer "Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven" in our hearts and on our lips.

Many people find the fifth phrase in Abune Zebesemayat's prayer difficult to put into practice. However, forgiveness is a condition for receiving forgiveness from our heavenly Father. As Jesus said in Matthew 6:14-15, "For if you forgive other people when they sin against you, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive others their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins." This powerful word is connected to the fifth verse, "Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled" (Matthew 5:6). We can see what Jesus taught about forgiveness in Matthew chapter 18, verses 21 to the end.

Therefore, God forgives our sins and shows us mercy only after we have forgiven those who have sinned against us. To ensure our own safety, we must prepare ourselves, avoid gossip, and strive to follow the Lord's teachings of love and mercy without fear. Otherwise, we will not receive mercy and salvation. We cannot attain salvation from sin by faith alone; we also need mercy and works of love. This is why the apostle Paul said in Galatians 5:6 that "faith working through love" is beneficial for us. When he spoke about our salvation, he said, "Continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose" (Philippians 2:12-13). Therefore, if we pray to our heavenly Father, forgiving those who have sinned against us and diligently working towards our salvation, we will not only be seekers of the Christian faith but also participants in the work of righteousness.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always. May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:809 | date:2023-03-17T21:36:46 ---


--- id:810 | date:2023-03-17T21:36:46 ---


--- id:811 | date:2023-03-17T21:36:46 ---


--- id:812 | date:2023-03-17T21:37:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Great #Lent

Dear and respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual services conveyed on John's Repentance website, today we are translating and sharing an important lesson on the subject from the book "Orthodox Mind" written by Deacon Yohannes Getachew. We urge you to read and learn from it.

All the things that our God and Savior Jesus Christ did when he came to this earth were works of salvation. It is a crime to mutilate even one of the works done from conception to ascension. All of them are works of redemption for our salvation. Not only that, to avoid confusion as to who taught us righteousness, and to be an example for us in practice, he commanded us to do righteous deeds and leads us there. Therefore, it is essential to realize that this fasting is an example and a redemption fast. Of course, this name comes from the 40 days of fasting.

What makes this fast great is because it is the fast that our Lord himself fasted for us. When St. Irenaeus explained how Christians in the past fasted this fast, some limited themselves to fasting for one day, some fasted for two days, others fasted for more than that, and some fasted for forty days until now. This difference in the timing of fasting has been there from those who were before us.

He also tells us that most Christians fasted for several days during Lent, saying that some would fast by abstaining from food for 40 hours. Devotees at different times, some abstain from food all day and eat in the evening, and some fast day and night; Some people "fast" on Fridays and Saturdays. However, it is not disputed that this fast is a great fast known to all.

Our Lord fasted this fast after his baptism. The reason for this is to make it clear that after we have received our sonship through baptism, we must keep the grace we received through fasting and prayer. When we get God's grace, the enemy, the devil, will inevitably try to destroy us, so he became a living example to us that we should fast and pray hard to protect ourselves.

The Bible says, "After that, the Spirit led him into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil" Matthew 4:1. The phrase 'After that' means that after the Holy Spirit descended on him in the form of a dove, and after the Father testified, "this is my beloved son," in the cloud. It is said that the Spirit took him to the desert to defeat Satan, who was confused by these words. The essential thing that we need to understand here is that it is never said that the Holy Spirit moved Jesus Christ just as he takes the righteous to the monastery and the martyrs to the blood. 'The Spirit took him' is to express the unity of the will with the Holy Spirit. It is to show that he came down from heaven, was born of a virgin, and went to the desert by the will of the Trinity. However, it does not mean that Jesus Christ had a different will from the Holy Spirit and took him to the desert at the prompting of the Holy Spirit. This cannot be. In this reading, the "wilderness" is Satan's abode. Christ went to the desert means to Satan's place. Because Satan deceived Adam with food and went to where Adam was, Christ is going to defeat Satan in his own city.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:813 | date:2023-03-17T21:39:01 ---
About the Great Lent (Part 2)

(Continued)👇

Our Lord's fast is a great example for us to follow in order to protect ourselves from the attacks of Satan. After receiving our sonship through baptism, we must keep the grace we received through fasting and prayer. The enemy, the devil, will inevitably try to destroy us, and we must fast and pray hard to protect ourselves.

When our Lord was led by the Holy Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil, it was after His baptism, and it was to defeat Satan in his own city. The wilderness is Satan's abode, a perfect desert where no righteous work can grow, where no water of peace can be drawn. Satan deceived Adam with food, and Christ went to defeat Satan in his own city by fasting for 40 days.

Beloved, perhaps our hearts have been pierced by the spear of pride, crushed by the stone of sin, and have become a barren desert like Satan. Let us plant fasting, which is the root of virtue, in our hearts and make it flourish. The wilderness is also a place where believers travel to live in unity with Christ alone, scorning the world. Monks go to monasteries to fight the devil and crush the power of the devil through fasting and prayer.

It was necessary for Christ to go to the wilderness to remind us that Satan's temptation is inevitable even if we are alone and to teach us about the monastic life. Fasting means fasting until we are able to overcome Satan's temptations. Satan is very afraid of us during fasting, and they cannot come near us. Just as we are getting tired and hungry because of our fasting, when our appetite increases, it comes armed with all its strength to fight us. Through His fasting, Christ taught us that no matter how holy we are, the temptation of the devil is inevitable.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:819 | date:2023-03-18T21:41:18 ---


--- id:820 | date:2023-03-18T21:41:18 ---


--- id:821 | date:2023-03-18T21:41:18 ---


--- id:822 | date:2023-03-18T21:41:56 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Great #Lent 

(Part 3) 

Early Church scholars explain the reason why the Major Fast is 40 days long from these two perspectives. Although fasting in our Church is 55 days, it is believed that we fast for only 40 days because 15 days are on weekends and are not counted as fasting days. On Saturdays and Sundays, although we are not allowed to eat butter and meat, we are not commanded to abstain from food for extended hours as we do on other days. Rather, we are instructed to have a meal in the morning after the Mass. For this reason, the Holy Church fasts for 40 days apart from Saturdays and Sundays, to commemorate the 40 days that our Lord fasted. The other view is that the first and last weeks are added to the main fasting of our Lord, which is 55 days, but the 40 days do not vary. In the end, by increasing our fervor, we will live for a week by practicing the suffering and pain that our Lord endured for us. The main reason for saying this is to remind us that the 40 days of Lent are not only spoken but lived in action.

According to ancient scholars' interpretation, the number 40 has many mysteries. St. John the Baptist explains that our Lord fasted for 40 days precisely, and neither a single day was added nor subtracted from this number of days. In the book that the Jews know, regardless of being below 40 or above, they use this as a reason not to accept the Gospel, which was fulfilled by the great prophets Moses and Elijah, who demonstrated that God became man and united our perfect bodies. He reminds them of the words in their own book in various ways, to remove the Jews' doubt and give them no reason to disbelieve. As Moses and Elijah fasted for 40 days and nights under God's power, He fasted their fast and made it perfect, revealing His perfect flesh.

The Jews do not accept the Gospel, even if it is lower or higher than 40. Therefore, in the book that they know (which was fulfilled by the great prophets Moses and Elijah), He fasted their fast accordingly. Through this, He not only made this fast perfect but also revealed His perfect body (God became man). 

In addition to this, the chief prophet Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the Torah after fasting for 40 days and nights. Fasting for 40 days and nights makes us understand that the law given to us as a result of fasting is perfect. The system of the Old Testament is like a mirror to the New Testament. When the Old Testament is revealed, the New Testament appears. In the Old Testament, it appears like the man born blind who explained that when he came to be washed in Siloam, when asked what he saw, he said 'blurry.' But when he came back after washing, he was asked what he saw, and he said, "It looks clear." In the same way, the New Testament is a special order that is clearly seen in the Old Testament (John 9). Moses, the believer who made this special Gospel that leads to the Kingdom of Heaven, fasted for 40 days and 40 nights to help the Jews understand it without difficulty.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:823 | date:2023-03-18T21:43:28 ---
(Continued) 👆

Moreover, the number forty has other symbolic meanings in the Bible. For instance, the Great Flood in the time of Noah lasted for forty days and forty nights, representing a time of purification and renewal of the earth. Moses also wandered in the wilderness with the Israelites for forty years before entering the Promised Land, signifying a time of testing and preparation. Similarly, Jesus spent forty days in the desert before beginning his public ministry, demonstrating his obedience to the Father and his preparation for the work ahead.

In summary, the 40-day fast during Lent is significant in the Orthodox Church for various reasons. It is based on the 40-day fast of our Lord, which is commemorated by the Church apart from Saturdays and Sundays. The first and last weeks of the fast are added to the main fasting period of 40 days to make up the total of 55 days, but the focus is on the central 40 days. The number 40 has symbolic meaning in the Bible, representing a time of purification, testing, and preparation. Fasting during Lent is a reminder to live out our faith in action, not just in words, and to follow the example of Christ and the prophets who fasted before him.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:826 | date:2023-03-19T22:23:05 ---


--- id:828 | date:2023-03-19T22:23:21 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Great #Lent 

(Part 4)

The significance of the number 40. 

Regarding the significance of the number 40, Augustine also provided additional insight. According to him, 40 can be broken down into 4 multiplied by 10. The number 4 represents time because a year is comprised of four seasons (winter, autumn, summer, and spring), and a day is divided into four periods (morning, noon, evening, and night). The number 10 signifies absolute honor or praise, as well as perfect knowledge. Furthermore, the number 3 symbolizes God's knowledge, while the number 7 represents human knowledge (the three attributes of the soul and the four attributes of the body). This verse is a reference to the Holy Trinity and does not imply that the Trinity consists of only three.

Thus, the number 40 carries two messages. The first message is to bless and sanctify us four times over with perfect tenfold praise. Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ fasted for forty days to bless and sanctify our entire lives. Through this fast, God blesses and sanctifies time and brings us from the current era of condemnation to an era of mercy. Fasting during this time means seeking and desiring to enter this era of mercy. When we reach this number, our time is blessed and all the miseries of this world are removed from us.

The second message is to help us understand God throughout our time and to know the mystery of the Trinity as much as we should. Through this fast, our Lord is teaching us that He blesses our knowledge at all times and helps us to understand His mystery as we ought. If we limit ourselves to our own knowledge, we will fall short of the number forty and suffer from persistent doubt and disbelief. Therefore, we should fast during this great fast to enlighten our eyes and hearts and to become aware of God.

In addition, when the great scholar Gregory interpreted the number 40, he associated the number 4 with the four attributes of the mortal body and the number 10 with the ten commandments. Therefore, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ fasted for forty days to show us that He gives us the strength to keep the Ten Commandments. Fasting is not just about abstaining from food; we only derive its value when we subject our bodies to the guidance of the Ten Commandments. If we abstain from food but do not allow our bodies to be governed by God's commandments, our fast cannot be considered proper.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:829 | date:2023-03-20T21:34:00 ---
👉Question: God promised Adam that He would come and save him in five and a half days or 5500 years. How do we count the days of the week?
 
✍️Answer:- The Church has always taught that in order to save Adam and his descendants, God promised to be born as a man and save them. This promise was given to Adam when he fell into sin and asked for forgiveness. God promised him that He would be born of his son, be crucified, die, rise and save him. The period from the time Adam fell or when the promise was given until the day of our Lord's birth is known as "five and a half days", according to the Lord's words and revealed to the Scholars by the Holy Spirit.

The scholars, enlightened by the spirit of God, understood that "five and a half days in God's will is five thousand and five hundred years". This means that God's five days are equivalent to five thousand years and five years and six months in man's time. It is important to note that the apostle Saint Peter explained that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.

Therefore, the difference between God's calendar and our calendar is clear. What is counted as one day or one year by God is counted as a thousand to us. Thus, the seven days of one week period should be understood with the grace and spiritual permission given to us. We should consider what God's thoughts and calculations look like and understand that the time calculation in the Bible, as given by our ancestors, is five thousand and five hundred years, which is called "five and a half days" by the Lord.

Saint Paul has explained that the day of the Lord or the coming of the Lord is sudden and unexpected. Therefore, we must always be ready and live our lives in accordance with God's will.

This is a powerful message that was given on Mount Olivet, as the Church teaches about the last days and the second coming, which is the foundation of this concept.

So, how are these seven days calculated? We use the grace and the gift of the Holy Spirit to reflect on what we have and count the seven days and the years according to our beliefs. As a religion, we calculate time differently from the world, and we are now entering the eighth millennium based on our calculations.

Although we have the Bible, there is a difference between our calculation and God's formula, as His calculation is counted in thousands. According to our calendar, since the creation of the world, it has been 8,800 years until the birth of the Lord, which was 5,500 years, and after His birth, according to our calendar, it has been around 2,000 years.

We acknowledge that our calculation is different from God's kindness and calculation of time, as His idea of time is different from ours. We should accept it with grace and without interfering in God's plans or doubting His wisdom, even if our time seems long.

We believe that we have addressed the meaning of your question in the context that we understand, and we entrust you in the name of God to share this explanation with everyone as it will benefit all our families.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:840 | date:2023-03-21T21:44:28 ---


--- id:841 | date:2023-03-21T21:44:44 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Power of #Fasting

Dear respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual services on John's Repentance website, today we are sharing an important lesson on the subject from the book "Orthodox Mind" written by Deacon Yohannes Getachew. We urge you to read and learn from it.

People who do not understand the power of fasting may consider it trivial and useless. However, the ignorance of people can never eliminate the greatness of fasting. We do not have to be outside of fasting to understand its power. We distinguish the taste of food by tasting, not by hearing, so it is not surprising that its taste is not known if one does not taste it while fasting. Some people want to deny its importance and convince others that it is useless. In fact, even a delicious meal tasted by a sick person does not taste good. It is not because the food is not tasty, but because the person who tasted it is sick.

The blindness of the outer eye does not hinder the brightness of the inner wine. But we must realize that the blindness of the inner eye has the power to blind the outer eye as well. Although fasting is hated by gluttons, if they knew the harm of their gluttony and used fasting as a medicine, they would understand its power to keep diseases away. Without understanding the power of fasting, we should be careful not to expose ourselves to diseases of the body and soul by abstaining from fasting. Saint Jared explains the greatness of fasting with wonder - "Look at the greatness and glory of fasting, it is sorrow for fools and joy for the wise." This clearly indicates that the power of fasting is defined by the wise. People who live in laziness and indifference may not understand the power of fasting because their desires divert their vision. In fact, the scholar said, "Fasting is a bridle; its fruit is sweet." Therefore, let us not underestimate fasting and make it easy. He advises us not to misunderstand it because of our laziness. So, fools may perceive its taste as bitter, but let us pray for them for the harm caused by distancing themselves from fasting, and let us not be carried away by their ignorance.

Saint Jared says, "Fasting has great benefits; it frees the soul from sin; it teaches the youth to be righteous and self-controlled. Fasting is holy; it brings peace; it gives happiness to the person who does it." Let us remember that we have lost peace, chastity, happiness, and favor in our lives because we spend most of our time in gluttony outside of fasting. Let us realize that our glory and beauty are within fasting due to God's grace.

The apostles explained to us the power of fasting in this way: "Furthermore, those who are being baptized should fast before baptism, and those who baptize should also fast if they can. You must tell the baptized person that they should fast one or two days before baptism. Your fasting should never be the same as that of the hypocrites." They explained to us that not only those being baptized but also the baptizer should fast before baptism.

It is clear that this system is made to honor the mystery of baptism and to make us go to the mystery water in purity. Even the baptizer should be armed with the power of fasting to protect themselves from pride or thinking highly of themselves for being a baptizer. The person who is baptized must cleanse their body by fasting so that they do not think of the holy water of baptism as any ordinary water. It should be done in holiness and not in hypocrisy like the Pharisees. The shepherd Herma revealed the greatness and power of fasting: "Fasting is very important, and it makes us keep the commandments of the Lord. (First of all, protect yourself from evil speech, evil will, protect your mind from loving anything of this world. If you refrain from doing these evil things, your fast will be perfect.) He explained to us the greatness of fasting. 

(Continues) 👇

--- id:842 | date:2023-03-21T21:44:44 ---
The Power of Fasting

(Part 2)

This same scholar told us that we should follow what is prescribed in the scriptures during fasting and warned us not to eat anything other than bread and water on the day of our fasting.

He also emphasized that during our fasting, we should give the money that we would have spent on food during the day to those who have lost their spouses, parents, or those who are in need. In doing so, we make our conscience work with humility and compassion, and those in need pray for us. If we fast in this way, our fasting will be accepted as a sacrifice. He explained to us how we should fast and the benefits we can gain from fasting.

To think that we are fasting just because we are not eating food is to misunderstand fasting. We should fast with a pure heart by performing acts of kindness, realizing that we are not gaining anything by merely abstaining from food. As a result of fasting, we receive a beautiful heavenly reward for the good deeds we do for the needy and hungry. Many people fast without believing and understanding that fasting is powerful, so they do not benefit from fasting. It is sad to see them pretending to fast to be seen and respected by others, when they should be more humble in their fasting.

Fasting is a great heavenly power, a spiritual medicine that cures the diseases of sin and evil. If a person who is far away from God due to the weakness of their behavior believes in the purity of fasting and uses it to overcome their problems, it is a perfect cure. St. Ambrose of Milan says: Fasting is heavenly in its definition. Fasting is spiritual food for the growth of the soul. Fasting is an angelic life. Fasting is the death of sin, the solution of salvation, the source of grace, and the foundation of purity. Through fasting, we draw closer to God because it is spiritual and heavenly, and we become like heavenly angels.

For the food of the soul's goodness is the source of its purity. Our soul craves fasting like bread. Fasting is not only to draw closer to God but also to make God draw closer to us in His mercy. It is the heavenly weapon of true Christians. Pope Clement says: "Through your prayers, fasting, regular watchfulness, and other good works, overcome the flesh with the power of the Holy Spirit." The will of the flesh is evil in itself, and we do not condemn it, but it is the sinful tendency that our soul merges with our body. The will of the flesh refers to the tendency of human beings to sin, and the will of the soul refers to our tendency to do good deeds. Unlike the Gnostics, the church does not observe that the body is impure, and the soul is holy. If we consider powerful fasting as an asset before we die, we can conquer our sinful tendencies.

In the story of the fathers of Bereh, Aba Esdros said, "If you fast all the time, you will not be full of pride. If you think you are superior because of fasting, it is better for you to eat meat than to do this. It is better to eat meat than to fill yourself with pride and self-respect." We are special because of our fasting, but we should not think about ourselves. Our fasting should not be a reason for pride, but a source of humility.

Mar Isaac said, "Fasting is the beginning of all the work of legacy. It inspires us with the power of fasting by saying that fasting is the glory of purity, the ornament of virginity and purity, and the beginning of the work of the gospel. Fasting is the mother of prayer, the repository of pearls. She inspires every good work. Conversely, a person who breaks their fast has distanced themselves from all good deeds. We can understand from this the extent of the damage caused by not fasting. Let us understand that our Holy Church arms her children with this spiritual power when she encourages us to fast through her seven proclamations.

(Continued) 👇🏾

--- id:843 | date:2023-03-21T21:44:44 ---
The Power of Fasting

(Part 3)

In his essay on Fasting and Almsgiving, the scholar explains: "Fasting purifies the soul, elevates the mind, subjugates our body to our soul, causes repentance and humility in the heart, dispels the clouds of desire for adultery, extinguishes the fire of lust, ignites the true light of purity, and allows God to enter us again."

The scholar emphasizes the blessings and power of fasting. Therefore, we cannot fully understand fasting without experiencing it. If we develop a love for fasting, as the true believers call it, we will never let it go.

Respecting and sanctifying fasting is a manifestation of the Christian journey. Father Jerome also says: "Fasting is not only the perfection of goodness, but the foundation of all good things. Fasting embodies the virtues of holiness, purity, and prudence. Without fasting, no one can see God." Fasting is considered great because it is the womb of kindness where all goodness is born. Although the book says that only the pure in heart will see God, we should not forget that fasting is the source of purity of heart. A person who truly fasts, who does not succumb to diabolical temptations, carefully examines good deeds, understands them, and performs them. Through pure fasting, which is loved by God, we can achieve good deeds without pretending or hypocrisy.

Therefore, if we apply fasting to gain spiritual power, we should refrain from taking and selling other people's money, from violence and aggression, from greed and indulgence, from laughing at the expense of others, and from all evil deeds such as deceit, resentment, anger, lies, and backbiting.

If our heart (our mind) is in conflict with other organs, we cannot do evil to them because the heart is the king of all organs. Therefore, if we do not follow the scholar's teachings on fasting, we will not be able to gain the power of fasting and make it our own. Let us strive diligently to follow the scholar's teachings.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our daily Orthodox Q&A Telegram group and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:844 | date:2023-03-22T21:30:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A brief about #John's #Repentance spiritual service

This service is the English version of our Amharic service የዮሐንስ ንስሐ፦ https://t.me/+ReLdpifiso4Sz04q

The purpose of this service is to bridge the language barrier that many face when trying to learn about the faith and bring the success we had with the Amharic program to a whole new set of audience. 

We provide 24/7 Q&A support, lessons on the major feasts, lessons on the teachings of the church, a medium where fellow Orthodox can connect, discuss and encourage one onother. Members can ask publicly on Telegram or privately on Facebook, Telegram or using our email address. 

We also provide spiritual support over phone by assisting in a number of ways. 

We post everyday at 11:30pm EST on Telegram and have presence in other social medias as well: 

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/johnrepentancechristianorthodox
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/johnsrepentance.orthodox.qna/
Telegram: https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh
TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@orthodoxqnas?_t=8ZaNxODGqqp&_r=1
Website: yohannesneseha.org (click English for language)

The intended audience for our service is anyone age 16 and up. This is a very safe space where people ask about anything and everything which is why we have an age restriction. However we do not have a faith restriction: anyone who wants to learn about the faith is welcome. They can ask questions, read what we post, call us and use the service to help them in their spiritual journey. 

Our service is not common and the best way to understand the value we offer is to experience it by asking questions, reading regularly, inviting friends, communicating with your fellow brothes and sisters, calling us for spiritual support, staying fully engaged and practicing what you learn. 

You may also share hyms, icons, news and so forth that you think is super useful to your Orthodox brothers and sisters as long as it doesn't have a link.

You can search through content using this method: 

Say you want to read about marriage, then you search #marriage and all the answers and lessons that have 'marriage' as their topic will show up. If you want to read a lesson, you choose the ones that has 3 hands (👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾) whereas if you want Q&A, you choose the ones thtat have 1 hand only (👉🏾). 

Say you want to search all the content that have both 'repentance' and 'fornication' in the topic, then you search: #repentance #fornication and you will get all the relevant results. 

Clicking the highlighted text above will also take you to those topics.

This service has the blessings of Abune Ermias (Bishop) which can be seen in some of our YouTube videos (in Amharic), is mainly lead by Like Hiruyan Tserse Abebe (Priest, church Scholar and head of the EOTC's public relations department), Aba Wolde Giorgis (Monk), Memeher Simur Getenet (priest and Church scholar)

Although the above are the major personals in the service, there are numerous others who serve day and night as volunteers.

Although the Church that has initiated this service is the EOTC, we sometimes reference and allow you to post material from any Orthodox Church, eastern and oriental.   

It is the order of God that His people first be served and thus we have done for the past three years with the Amharic service. By the will of God we are now providing the service in English so everyone can learn about the true faith regardless of their background. Hence we urge you to spread awareness of this service and be a reason for the salvation of your friends, family and even coworkers. Do not hide God's talent in the ground (The Parable of the Talents Matthew 25:14-30)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:845 | date:2023-03-23T21:30:44 ---
👉🏾 About #repentance #confession 

👉🏾 Question: How do I prepare to confess sin? 
 
Respected members who follow the Orthodox education and spiritual services on John's Repentance page, today we send an important lesson on repentance so we urge you to read and learn from it.
 
✍Answer: First of all, it is a pleasure to hear that you are preparing for repentance. This is an act of loyalty expected from a true Christian and is more sacred than anything else, so we entrust you to repent by standing firm in your aim until the end, and we declare that we are by your side with the spiritual service that we can help you in all your ways. Please note that we confirm our word by starting to send you important teaching and advice based on your questions, which explains the meaning and process of repentance below.
 
Because God is a God of love, he always waits for us to return with open arms and call him my children. When the prophet Ezekiel said that God does not like the death of a person and he likes the return of a person to repentance, ''Repent, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin. Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby you have transgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit: for why will ye die,...For I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth, saith the Lord GOD: wherefore turn yourselves, and live ye." (Ezekiel 18 30-32).
 
Before we come to the question that our dear member asked about how to repent, let us ask 'what is sin?' What is repentance?' Since we have to understand clearly, it is appropriate to put their meaning first as follows.
 
- Sin :- Sin is the loss of meaning, and its secret meaning is rebellion, wrongdoing, humiliation, falling, losing and stealing what we had, lack of honor, doing evil, breaking the law, falling away from the glory of heaven, doubting, submitting oneself to the work of destruction, collaborating with death, etc. Sin can make us think of all these details of failure.
 
- Repentance :- Repentance is the meaning and explanation of the word, sorrow, regret, anger, punishment, acceptance of the canon, paying compensation for the sin committed, believing in the wrongdoing and destruction. In addition, it is a final decision to not commit sins that would otherwise disobey the Creator and deprive him of heavenly eternal life.
 
The following are the important emotional and practical processes that a person who is ready to repent should acquire before repenting, i.e. the spiritual education or understanding that is called pre-repentance.
 
Repentance preparation procedures that help us understand repentance in the right way
 
- Repentance with real feelings: Before repenting, we must admit our own sinfulness and feel remorse.
This type of regret follows failure, embarrassment, shame, loss, mistakes. A person who knows his sinfulness, thinks about breaking the law, wronging God, other people, and his own soul, condemns himself with anger and sorrow, and regrets, and hates the sin he has committed. The burning of such a feeling in us is one of the signs that we are not sleeping comfortably in the bed of sin (it indicates that there is a sign of hope or regret left in us to repent). As the prophet advised us, "If you repent and cry, you will be saved" (Isaiah 30:15). Crying for the sins you have committed is a great and bright way to be saved and to find forgiveness for your sins.
 
- Hating sin: One of the behaviors that help us easily hate sin is fearing God. The wise Solomon said, "He who fears God hates sin; "He hates envy and pride, and hates evil ways" (Proverbs 8:13). He told us that if we do not hate the sin that we are often tempted by, it means that we have appointed the work of sin as a queen over ourselves. 

(Continued)👇

--- id:846 | date:2023-03-23T21:39:03 ---
👉🏾 How do I prepare to confess sin?

(Part 2)

The great holy father, Mar Isaac, told us the great spiritual truth, "If the human being is not the enemy of sin first, he cannot take down sin from his head." Abhorrence is the greatest level of hatred, so it is necessary not only to abhor the practice of sin, but also to abhor the thought of that sin.

To repent of sin is to be ashamed of sin, to hate sin, and to turn back. A person who is ready to repent without a thorough understanding of these is not free from the slavery of sin, so he will not hesitate to return to his previous duty easily. Therefore, the first and most important thing that helps us start away from sin is to admit that we have sinned and confess to ourselves, and to hate sin. Hating sin is the greatest force that helps us separate from sin and leave it forever. We cannot truly repent of sinfulness while in love with sin, nor can we live with a problem that can be corrected and not be corrected without separating from it.
 
- Bringing a change in thinking: To solve a problem in any area of our life, we must have a different perspective and need from the previous one. Glory cannot be found in a lazy mind, problems cannot be solved by a needy (problem-creating) mind, it is impossible to love with a hateful mind, and it is difficult to hate with a loving heart. Nor will he come to repentance with a sinful mind. Therefore, any change requires a change of thinking first. For this, our greatest powers are faith, good vision, and hope. In this way, a sinner must first stop his sin and change from loving sin to hating his sin in order to repent spiritually. Because in a life of sin, we cannot understand the importance of righteousness.

- Not to worry, but to repent: A sinner who worries and a sinner who repents are completely different. Anxiety is a disorder of terror caused by the abundance and evil of our sinfulness, and this kind of temporary regret can occur even in a conscience that has not awakened from sin. But spiritual repentance comes next to knowing sinfulness, hating sin, and being ashamed of sin, and it is the first step of repentance. Saint Paul said in his second letter, "I am very glad that you are sorry for the sake of God, so that not even one of you may perish." Grief for God is repentance that gives eternal life" (2 Cor 7:9) "Return to me with all your heart, but do not tear your clothes, but your heart" (Job 2:13, Ps 50:17, Job 2:1)
 
- Using our free will for good deeds: Sin's greatest strength and confidence (guaranty) in us is our love for her, not her power. The devil has no other confidence without our consent. If we deny our will, if we overcome it, we will be rewarded. But if we give our consent to the work he offers us, we will be defeated and humiliated. If we remain losers, our defeat will not be inevitable for the time being. Because if Satan finds the small hole of will, he will lick it like a snake and widen it, and he will lose us from our God. When our evil will screams, it repeatedly whips us with the whip of sin and drives us down to the valley of death, hell, to the world of damnation, and store us there forever.
 
God predestined all human beings for life and salvation. But the decision is made when our free will is added to it. So whoever wants life can be saved. Salvation is in our hands. Our God always stretches out His hand and calls us to repentance so that we can use our free will to adjust and return to freedom. He who repents will be saved. He who refuses and ignores the call will perish.

(To be Continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:848 | date:2023-03-24T21:30:38 ---
👉🏾 How do I prepare to confess sin?

(Part 3)

(Continued) 👆

Therefore, to briefly summarize the main tasks expected of a Christian who wants to repent:
 
1. First of all, he admits that he has committed a sin and repents to his conscience  and hates the sin.
 
2. Repenting about the sin or wrongdoing committed, confessing the wrongdoing to the Creator, God, in the morning and night with prayers and supplications and confessing the sin before God (Ps 50, Dan 9:5, Neh 1:6-7).

3. By forgiving all those who have wronged us, we break down the wall of enmity and win with love and live in peace with a perfect conscience for the sake of eternal life.
 
4. To talk about the wrongdoings and sins that we have done without hiding anything, to keep it in our mind in detail, and if we think that we will forget, to be prepared with a note.
 
5. Confession of sins to the priest (repentance). Since the priest is God's servant and is appointed over us for the sake of our souls, repenting by confessing our sins to the priest; It means repenting and confessing before God so that our sins can be forgiven. (Joshua 7:19 Matthew 3:6 Leviticus 5:5-6 Acts 19:18)
 
After we have repented, we must strive to continue our penitent life in the right way of righteousness:
 
- Doing righteous deeds: When the scholars of the church teach, they tell us that God does not like us to sit with our legs stretched out and say that it is always from Him to do it. He does not allow us to say that he gives us value without work. But first we should do our part and ask him to do his part for us. Therefore, it is very important to believe that our own decision has a very significant role in the security of the world and to implement it, which includes worshiping God, fasting, prayer, prostration, almsgiving and tithing. Absence of righteousness is the source of sin against us when our inner relationship with God begins to break down. At this time, sin easily rules over us. Therefore, if we know the root causes of our trials in advance, we should avoid them and protect ourselves and walk in a righteous way.
 
- Hating sin not only with knowledge, but also with will and emotion: Many people hate sin; we don't want to do it. But when our will exceeds our knowledge, we commit it again and again while knowing that it is the sin we hate. Therefore, we should hate sin not only with knowledge or fear, but also with will and emotion. Otherwise, if we hate it only because we know it is evil or because we believe in the judgment it will bring upon us, we will be hating it and obeying it because our will is with the flesh. Even if we say that we will fight for it, we will lose and fall because our fight is not from our feelings. When we are tempted by a bad habit, if the will (emotion) is not awakened to understand the extent of the sin, it is not possible to leave the sin, because it is not possible to say that I hate the sin. Saint Paul the Apostle said, "What I hate, I will also do" (Romans 7:19). Knowing all that is good, one of the problems in which we fall into sin due to the carnal will driven by passion is not applying knowledge and not aligning our knowledge with our feelings. In general, when we say that we hate sin, the hatred must be sincere and complete, that is, with will (emotion), knowledge, and with all our strength. This is possible by fulfilling God's commandment against sin word by word, "Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength" (Exodus 6:3).
 
(Continued)👇

--- id:849 | date:2023-03-24T21:33:02 ---
👉🏾 How do I prepare to confess sin?

(Part 4)

- Refraining from talking about sin and mocking it: Also, if we pretend to hate sin, but make fun of it, it means we don't hate it. "In the words of a sinful person, sin accumulates" (Sira 27:4) and "there is much sin in him, so do not let anything that is impure come out of your tongue" (Sira 23:13).

Therefore, even if we meet her (sin) again, ready and prepared as much as she wants, without arguing with ourselves, if our heart's will and our mind's knowledge work together as one and understand her futility, then it is known that our rejection of sin is perfect. It will be confirmed that we have identified her as our enemy. It is only a dog that returns to its vomit.
 
- Regularly read from spiritual things, and consult spiritual fathers: To avoid falling back into sin, regularly consult a penitent father or religious teacher, pray as much as possible, go to church and listen to the word of God, read spiritual books even at home, listen to spiritual teachings and hymns. It is important.

To sum up, we will now summarise to you what a Christian should do after washing his sinful body, since his whole life is clean and the way is straight for any spiritual service:

1. Above all, be careful not to return to sin again and defile your sacred life.

2 / Receiving Holy Communion, fasting, praying, and prostrating as much as you can without stopping and without tiring.

3/ Contributing what is due to the poor as uou can; and also to God (tithe) 10% from what you earn.

4/ Regularly receiving advice and obedience from fathers, coming to church in the daily/weekly program, learning the word of God, sanctifying.

5/. Always read spiritual books that serve as a close teacher and mentor, and more than that, do your part to live in peace and love with patience and wisdom in your life, workplace, social affairs with all mankind.

Since it is possible to do all these and other spiritual things as a whole when a person's life is renewed through repentance, may God help you to put into practice the spiritual advice given to you above, believing that God will keep your life clean and holy.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:852 | date:2023-03-25T21:54:33 ---
👉🏾 About #fasting 

👉🏾 Question፦ Should you accept something offered to you during great fasting that is not permitted or at a time before you should break your fast? On work or in a family gathering with others who are not fasting?

 What happens if you eat something that was offered that contains meat... without knowing....but prayed and made the sign of the cross before eating...What should you do after finding out?

Answer፦ Whether it is at work or with people who are not fasting, if someone offers something that is not permitted during fasting before the end of the fasting period, one should not accept it. It is important to understand that fasting is mandatory for Orthodox Christians. There is no excuse for not fasting, the only exception would be health conditions or special circumstances like our sisters who live in Arab countries working as mades in a house where there is no option to fast. The Church has seven fasting periods and every Orthodox Christian is obligated to fast during these seven fasts. The start of these fasts is announced in all churches, on social media Orthodox services, and we hear about them from friends and family. Thus, one should fast after hearing all of this.

It is inconvenient to fast for those that don't live in a Christian county. If one lives in a Christian country, they must fast during the seven fasting periods. It is not right to eat anything during fasting. However, if he/she is sick and lives in an Islamic country, such as an Arab country, where food with meat and butter are common, and it is difficult to find clean bread, eating during fasting may be allowed for a specific reason like this. However one must communicate this with their father of pennance before deciding for themselves. 

If one decides to eat diary food during fasting periods, the Church cannot force him to fast but he can fast when he is willing to obey the Church's commandments and fast. For example, when Adam was told not to do something, it was prescribed because it would harm him. He knew not to eat from the tree of knowledge which is why he was able to enjoy 7 years of peace and unity with God in Heaven. Similarly, if a person is told not to eat poison, he knows that it will harm him, so he will not eat it. Therefore, eating what is said not to eat during fasting is like drinking poison. Adam lived peacefully for about seven years without eating what he was told not to eat. But after eating, the God-like Lord lost his place in heaven and became a wandering refugee. This happened because he ate what he was told not to eat and did what he was told not to do. It means that if a person does what he is told not to do, he will get hurt. We should all know this. But if there is something beyond our control, God knows everything, God is merciful and cares for us more than we do. If we can fast and choose not to do so, we will be asked for this, just like Adam was held accountable. When the devil asked him to eat, he could have said that he would not eat, but he willingly ate. 

If someone unknowingly eats something not permitted during fasting, they should tell their repentant father, and it's not something they did knowingly. They should not break or interrupt their fast. They should continue to fast and tell their father of pennance about the problem they faced. Therefore, for repentance, they should approach their father and accept the canon. If we accidentally fail while doing spiritual work, we should be careful not to fail again. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:856 | date:2023-03-26T21:36:51 ---


--- id:857 | date:2023-03-26T21:36:51 ---


--- id:858 | date:2023-03-26T21:36:51 ---


--- id:859 | date:2023-03-26T21:37:11 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Tears of #repentance 

Dear Orthodox friends of John's Repentance website spiritual program series; We have sent you the following educational message regarding the subject mentioned in the title, so we entrust you to read and understand it.

There is a legend that has been told since ancient times. The Almighty God said to the angels, "Go to the earth and bring the most precious things that you find on earth." One of the angels brought a drop of blood that a man had shed to save another man. The Most High God said, "O angel; This that you have brought is glorious in my sight. However, it is not the most glorious one. Another angel came from a patient who died of an infectious disease and a nurse who died from the disease and brought her last breath. The Most High God said, "O angel; This that you have brought is glorious in my sight. However, it is not the most glorious one. Finally, another angel brought the tears of a sinner who had repented in a small cup before God. And God said to the angel, "O angel; "You have brought to me the most noble thing in the world," he replied. (Philokalia: the Bible of Orthodox Spirituality p.159)

The way for a person to return to God after he has sinned is through tears of repentance. The psalmist, Saint David, often tells us about the blessed pearl of the Holy Spirit. Let's notice what he said, "I wash my bed all night long, and I wipe my bed with my tears." He said this because his repentance is through the grace and mercy of the Holy Spirit. For his repentance was not in vain like the repentance of Judas. Again, the psalmist tells us that "weeping will come in the evening, but in the morning there will be joy" (Ps 29 (30):5). This signifies the joy of the Holy Spirit given with tears. It is related to what the Lord said in the Gospel, "Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted" (Matthew 5:4). Tears give spiritual rest to the soul lost in sin, and cause it to gain insight and the revelation of mysteries. When the Holy Gospel talks about Saint Peter, it says, "He went outside and wept bitterly" (Luke 22:62). He received the great responsibility to feed and lead the believers after walking in tears

Our ancestors taught that tears are a gift from God to give birth to a new life. Baptism is one; If a person sins after baptism and is in the work of death, his return and "rebirth" is this tear of repentance. Through the tears of repentance, he renews the grace that he received in baptism, but which was later corrupted by sin.

St. John the Baptist said, "The fire of sin is steadfast." But a few drops of tears extinguishes the burning of mistakes (like fire) and purifies our souls. He teaches us this spiritual lesson. Because the tears of true repentance are a gift from God, it explains to us that no matter how bad a person's wrongdoing is, it has the power to destroy that serious sin. St. John said this to indicate that a person can do wrong because of his free will, and whether he does not use it, will be questioned at the time of judgment. We find this holy father often teaching about tears of repentance. One of his teachings where he explained that "tears are both the mother and child of prayer" is worth mentioning. Tears have a great place for a person's eternal life and the union of grace with God. It makes a person compassionate, pure, loving others, forgiving and humble. If he does this, he will live forever as his creator (God).

In general, all members; Thinking only of God's things, we should repent, be in a broken heart to fulfill our canon properly, and pray with tears; Similarly, if we come across other things that can mislead or distract us, we recommend that we need to stay away from them so that we don't fall into sin.

We will return in the next lesson about the obstacles to repentance, so stay tuned

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:860 | date:2023-03-27T21:36:02 ---


--- id:861 | date:2023-03-27T21:37:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; As mentioned in the title, we have sent you the following important lesson about the monthly commemoration of the Archangel Gabriel, which is celebrated today, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

St. Gabriel is the 2nd ranked angel power after St. Michael among the 7 archangels. He is described in the scriptures equally as the Archangel Michael in his intercession and mediation. Gabriel means servant and messenger of God. He is given this mysterious name because it is often revealed in the form of a human being and conveys God's message or God's will to mankind. In the place where the angels were created, when God, who created them, disappeared from their eyes in an instant to ensure the stability of their religion. Then question arose in the society of angels: 'Who created us?', 'Where did we come from?'  At this time, the father of destruction, the devil, boldly and defiantly said, "I have created you." But the angel Saint Gabriel calmed down the association of countless holy angels by saying that we should stand firm where we are. Because of this, as it is written on John 1:14, 'The Word became flesh', he was chosen to announce to the Virgin that the Son of God  will come down from heaven and be born as a man from the Virgin Mary. The angel Gabriel said to the her, "Behold, you will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will call his name Jesus. He is great. He will be called the Son of the Most High (Luke 1:31). Now that we have learned something about the Archangel, we will proceed with today's feast. 

This is the miracle he performed on December 28th (annual commemoration day) : Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael (Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego) from the furnace fire. If you ask how this happened, when they were living in captivity in Persian Babylon, King Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel the fourth and placed them in the palace to learn wisdom from Babylon. Meldar, their steward, offered them meat and wine in goblets. They said, "We will not eat this. Give us some grain and good water." He said to them, "If the king sees your weight loss, he will be angry." They said give us a date. He gave them 10 days. They ate grains and drank water, and they were more handsome and bright than those who ate meat and drank wine. While they were learning, the Lord revealed his wisdom to them and they became wise, especially Daniel who enterpreted the king's vision. Then because of this, the king appointed them in three states. But the Babylonians were jealous of this and thought of a reason to quarrel with the king. They said to the king, make a picture of yourself so you can distinguish between your friend and your enemy. He made a gold statue 60 cubits high and 6 cubits wide and placed it in the field of Aduran and proclaimed that those who do not bow to it will be punished. When everybody bowed down, they  (Ananya, Azariah, and Mishael) said, "We will not bow down." And the Babylonians went and told the king. The king then ordered they be brought before him for questioning. He asked them 'Do you say that we should not worship?' They said yes. 'Who will save you?' They said to him "the God that created us will save us." He kindled a fire, and the flame became 49 cubits.

After this, he selected the mighty ones and threw the three into the fire. The soldiers who pushed them to fire were burned but  for the three (Ananya, Azariah, Misael) the angel Gabriel came down and touched the fire with his rod, it turned into water. When the Babylonians saw that the fire was extinguished, they added more fire to it and activated the burn. But they (Ananya, Azariah, Mishael) spent the night singing praises to God without being burned.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:862 | date:2023-03-27T21:40:18 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

(continued part)👆👇

In the morning, when Nebuchadnezzar looked from his balcony, he saw four of them walking in the fire. Yesterday we tied three men and threw them out of the fiery furnace, but today I see four of them released  and walking in the fire. And immediately he went out of the oven and said to them, come out. They ran out. Not even an ash was found on their clothes. Nebuchadnezzar saw this and said, "Praise be to God, the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who sent his angel and saved the poor." 'King, do you think it's true? It was because of their magic' said the Babylonians. And the king said 'If by magic, save yourselves by your magic for there is none greater than you, and then added the Babylonians to the fire and burned them.

And the king returned the decree with a decree saying that there is no one who can save except the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. (Dan chapter 3)

👉🏾 In addition to the above, here are some of the main works of intercession and mediation that the angel Saint Gabriel is known for, which he performed by the grace given to him from the Creator:-

👉 1st/ He told the prophet Daniel in a vision about what was going to happen. 15:16)

👉 2. Also, in the vision that the prophet Daniel saw again, he said this about the angel, "While I was still praying, the angel I had seen in the vision before, Gabriel, came flying... He taught me and told me... Daniel, I have come now to give you wisdom and understanding" (Dan 9: 21-23)

👉 3rd / Saint Gabriel is the angel who saved Daniel from the lion's mouth.

👉 4th /  Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael from the furnace fire. 

👉 5th/ He announced to the priest Zacharias and Saint Elizabeth that they would give birth to John the Baptist in their old age.

👉 6. He announced to the Virgin Mary that the physical word Jesus Christ, who is the cure of the world, would be born from the her.

👉 7th/ He saved  St. Jeletan and the child Kirkos from a boiling fire in an iron tank. 

👉 8th/ He led the wise men to the city of Bethlehem where the Lord was born, leading them with the sign of a star.

👉 9th/ Old Joseph was told in a dream to take his mother and baby and flee to Egypt.

👉 10/ In addition, Saint Gabriel announced the conception of Samson; He brought forth water for Agar in the desert. He who interpreted the mystery to Daniel; He is an angel appointed over serpents and scorpions.

In general, we find this angel's intercession and guardianship in many readings of the holy books; God has helped us to write to you on the occasion of the monthly holiday that we celebrate today, March 28th, so that we may all receive the intercession and blessings of the angel Saint Gabriel. 

Therefore, if the Lord God had not sent his angels to protect us night and morning, day and night, on the road, when we sleep at home and when we get up, Satan's army would have prevent us from having life in this world and the next .

God's prophet, Saint David, said, "No calamity will enter your house. He will raise up angels for you to guard you on your way. They will lift you up with their hands so that your feet will not stumble over a stone..." Telling us about the guardianship and protection of angels.

In another paragraph, he said, "God's angel will live around those who fear him, and will save them." He said that angels will save people who believe in the guardianship and intercession of angels, and that they will save us from physical and spiritual suffering. (Ps 33:7, 90/91:10')

Since angels are appointed to have authority over all creatures, the prophet Enoch told us about the power of intercessor and guardianship of Saint Gabriel saying that he is one of the noble angels appointed over the serpents, the righteous in heaven, and the cherubim. (Enoch 6:7)

May the prayers and supplications of this great angel of light rest upon us

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:866 | date:2023-03-28T21:36:56 ---


--- id:867 | date:2023-03-28T21:36:56 ---


--- id:868 | date:2023-03-28T21:36:56 ---


--- id:869 | date:2023-03-28T21:36:56 ---


--- id:871 | date:2023-03-28T21:42:25 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Church

(The Mystical Unity of the Church with Christ)

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; We have sent you the following important lesson about the unity between Christ and the Church so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

Man was not created to live a solitary life but to live together, growing in love. When man was created, he was not meant to live alone. The fact that Adam and Eve were created is because man achieves the purpose of being human only when he has another human being. Love, humility, kindness, and kindness have practical meaning only when a person has another person to love.

Although the Orthodox doctrine of salvation places God's grace as its basic starting point, it also requires the existence of another person. Without our brother (without another person), we will not find salvation. We can be saved from this cruel and deeply lonely world and from evil when we love others in a manner that is the image of a holy saint, when we love others with selfless love. Then we will thank and glorify God, who is the owner of the holy and eternal communion with him. Then we will have unity with the saints who will be members of the holy fellowship by believing in Christ.

The church is an important part of Christ. Christ will not be complete without the church. In St. Paul's teaching, the church is the fullness of Christ. When we think about this from the heart, we understand that it is a divine mystery. Our God, Christ, who is perfect in everything, is a perfect man, and He made the church, which is His body, to be the fullness. On Friday, He made the church full of His bride, for whom He willingly accepted sickness and death. Without her, it is impossible to know Him and live in harmony with Him. It is through her that we find Him. Our Lord, when He goes to the Father who sent Him, told His disciples and their company that He will live with them forever. It is the church that welcomes people to find salvation when they have a heart ready to believe in Christ because it is the one who lives with them forever in their teachings, their prayers, the sacraments they offer, and everything they fight for. She is the real body of Christ, and whoever enters her becomes a member of Christ. The Church makes them part of Christ through the mysteries they perform. As Christ is known by the church, so the church is known only by Christ. Her identity is Christ, who is her head. Her existence is only as long as she lives with Him, in Him.

To describe the unity of Christ, the holy scholars teach that "from two natures, He became one nature by the union." Also, to explain that there is one body of Christ that is united, we have heard that it is said that two bodies are united into one body. The second statement is to speak of the united eternity, not that there was a human body of Christ before the incarnation. We do not know Christ's human body apart from His union with His physical word (pre-union). Also, we do not know the church separately, but in its mystical union with Christ. We do not know the scriptures and rituals in the church by separating them from Christ. Their foundation, center, and conclusion are in Him. Therefore, it is through the church's teachings, practices, and sacraments that we come to know Christ and participate in His divine life.

Furthermore, the church is not a mere human institution, but rather a divine institution founded by Christ Himself. The church is not just a community of believers, but it is the mystical body of Christ, which includes all the faithful who have been baptized into Christ and share in His life. The church is the place where we encounter Christ in a special way, and it is through the church that we receive the grace of God that enables us to live a holy life and become united with Him.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:872 | date:2023-03-28T21:45:12 ---
(Continued) 👆

In summary, the church is an essential part of our salvation, and it is through the church that we come to know and love Christ. The church is the mystical body of Christ, and whoever enters it becomes a member of Christ. Therefore, let us strive to participate fully in the life of the church, to receive the sacraments regularly, to pray and worship with the community of believers, and to live a life of love and service to one another, as Christ Himself taught us. By doing so, we will grow in our unity with Christ and with one another, and we will experience the joy and peace that come from living in communion with God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:877 | date:2023-03-29T21:30:35 ---
👉Question: Why do we believe that the Virgin #Mary, the #Saints, and the #angels #intercede for us? Why don't we just ask God straight? Does God tell us to ask him through them in the bible? God is merciful so he will listen to us when we ask him, so there is no need to ask the saints and angels. When we pray to saints and angels, we are not giving enough time to God. Jesus Christ is the one who died for us, therefore we should only ask Him and give all our prayer time to Him.

✍Answer: This is a frequently asked question. We can cite many verses about the intercession of the Virgin Mary and the saints. What we call Saints: Holy Virgin Mary, Holy Angels, Holy Prophets, Holy Apostles and others who have served God, whom God has chosen, who came to be chosen by God, the Church calls them Saints.
 
We say that the saints intercede, not because we came up with our own ideas or agreed with this common point of view. Infact, nowhere in the Bible do we find the word that says saints do not intercede. Maybe we will hear the non-believers say it. Our questioner, if you tell us there is, it would be good if you could cite the source and explain it to us. Who can belittle what God has honored? Is it God's will for the saints to intercede? We see that as follows:
 
Basically, it is God who told us that saints are intercessors. Accordingly, to do what God commanded us to do,   we Orthodox  trust in the intercession of the saints. When we say the intercession of the saints, it means 'beg', 'morning', 'intercede'. 'Amalaj' means the prayer and supplication that one makes for the other. It is to God  they present the prayer, and it is the saints who intercede for us. It is not an offense if one prays for the other as an intercessor, for it is God whom they beg to.
 
There are three elements that should be included in this task that we should never forget:-

The First one is: 'Intercessor'. Intercession is for creatures. If they say why don't we pray to Jesus Christ directly, it will be like saying that Jesus Christ is a creature. Holy men intercede for sinners, that sinners may be forgiven. For example, let's look at Moses the man of God, Torah Exodus chapter 32 verse 32 "And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Oh, these people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold. Yet now, if you want to forgive their sin --; and if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written." Saying this, we can see that he begged to the point of sacrificing. When Israel was wronged and quarreled with God, this is the prayer that he said, forgive them, save them.
 
Lest people say this is from the old world, Saint Paul to the Romans chapter 9 verse 1-3 "I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost, That I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart. For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh." He says. He said, "If my brothers are saved, I will be cursed." this is love. The gospel says that you should love one another. In the light of the world, we see Saint Paul praying for his people, and we see God's prophet Moses praying for people who need to be saved. Therefore, they are saints when we call them intercessors.
 
The second, "Receiver of prayer means (temalaj) the recipient of intercessory prayers and supplications." In religious education, the destination of all prayers is God. There is only one God to whom intercession, prayer and supplication are offered. "When we say one God, we mean the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. They are three persons who are united in one lordship, one authority, one will, and one divine glory. They accept the requests of the creatures in heaven and on earth and do the work of their will and goodness. When the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are the Trinity, their name in unity is "God." So there is an intercessor, there is an Receiver of prayer means (temalaj) . It means that intercessors are saints, and Receiver of prayer means (temalaj) is God.

(Continued )👇

--- id:878 | date:2023-03-29T21:33:02 ---
(Part 2)

(Continued)👆

The third part is the one who intercedes or begs for him. He says, "Intercessors offer intercession to God, who is praised in unity and trinity, for sinners." The people or people they pray to or intercede for has its own role in the work of intercession. He says that he should repent from the sin he commits by believing in the intercessor's prayer and intercessor's goodness.
 
Therefore, if we say that there is no need for intercession, we are saying that there is no need to repent, there is no need to accept the holy body and the precious blood. God says, "Go and show yourself to the priest", this means that the priest connects with God, "Intercession is not done by our will, it is done by God's command, it is a good thing that God himself ordered and allowed people to do." We can understand this in the following verses as an example.
 
In Genesis Chapter 20 Verses 1-7 in terms of that time and condition, Abraham had said, Sarah is my sister. And Abimelech took her. But at this time, God appeared to Abimelech in his dream at night and says, "That man is a prophet. You are sick because you took his wife. You will be cured of your illness because he is a prophet and he will pray for you."  God could give mercy directly to Abimelech; But it means that he wanted to give His mercy through the saints. Therefore, if God commands, we will do it. If God allows, if He likes, then there will be no reason why we should not do what we say.
 
Job Chapter 42 Verses 7-9 The  friends who were hurting Job saying many things; God finally says to them ""My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath. Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job. So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them: the LORD also accepted Job." So this also means God's will.
 
In the New Testament, St. Paul, in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 19, explained that the work of intercession is the work of the saints given by God, and he put a word of reconciliation for us. Therefore, we are His messengers for Christ so that God may receive our prayer through us. We beg you to be reconciled to God for Christ's sake.
 
1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 1-4: "I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men; For kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness and honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior; Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth." He testified that the work of intercession is God's will and order, not man's idea.
 
Therefore, if God commands like this, if the intercession of the saints is God's will, if God allows it, we have no reason why we should not do what God commands us to do. This is also in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. Therefore, it is God who commanded us to intercede for the Virgin Mary. Our Lady, the Holy Virgin Mary, is one of the saints. When we say intercession, it is not something that we have agreed on ourselves, willingly, voluntarily.
 
It is God who is thought of in every Mass, every Mahat, every hour. We give enough time to God, we are baptized because Jesus Christ himself was baptized and showed us and gave us, we celebrate the birthday of Jesus Christ, the festival we celebrate as baptism is Jesus Christ, the festival we celebrate as Debretabor is because Jesus Christ revealed his divine power in Debretabor.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:879 | date:2023-03-29T21:36:02 ---
(Part 3)

(Continued) 👆

The nine major festivals are Jesus Christ's conception, birth, baptism, Hosanna, crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension. It is Jesus Christ who will come again, he is the one we said appeared in Debretabor, our time is with him, there is a book  about Jesus Christ that is repeated (read) after Mass.
 
It is God who is praised every day, every day at Mahlet, when the hours stop. The Orthodox Tewahedo Church gives its full time to Jesus Christ. Day and night, always, we do not have Christianity without Christ. When we say, "In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit," it is Christ, Torah Leviticus, Chapter 19, Verse 2. As I am holy, so be ye holy." It is Jesus Christ who is sanctified.
 
When we give time to the saints, we are also giving time to Jesus Christ. The festivals of Jesus Christ are celebrated every year. There is no Christianity without Jesus Christ. May God help us to understand this and be saved.

(Part 4 to be Continued )
 
May God's name be praised, the God of our ancestors who has rebuked us, Amen
I pray for God's mother, the virgin, and may the cross remain glorious
 
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:881 | date:2023-03-30T21:37:20 ---
👉🏾 What is the meaning of #meditation and #contemplation in the language of the Church?

👉 Question: Could you teach us what meditation means in the Church? What does it mean to meditate on Scriptures or other spiritual and educational readings? How can we follow the example of King David, who meditated on God's Word day and night, as he wrote in Psalm 1:2-3: "But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf does not wither. Whatever he does prospers."

Answer: The Psalmist Saint David wrote in Psalm 1, verses 2-3: "Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners or sit in the seat of mockers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf does not wither. Whatever he does prospers."

An Orthodox believer who contemplates the Word of God, studies it, and listens to it, is like a tree planted by a river. Therefore, the believer who reads and listens to the Word of God will bear the fruit of morality. This fruit is manifested in the believer's observance of the commandments of God, including fasting, praying, repenting, bowing down, and receiving the holy flesh and precious blood of Christ.

Meditation on the Word of God is essential to remember and follow its teachings. One must not forget the Word of God, even when sitting, standing, walking, sleeping, or rising. Meditating on the Word of God means following God's commandments, including not lying, not stealing, and honoring one's parents.

Since God suffered and died for us, believers should not wrong anyone whom God loves. By following God's commandments and meditating on His Word, the believer will produce the fruit of morality and be fit for the Kingdom of God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:886 | date:2023-04-01T21:34:58 ---


--- id:887 | date:2023-04-01T21:34:58 ---


--- id:888 | date:2023-04-01T21:34:58 ---


--- id:889 | date:2023-04-01T21:35:08 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Advices and #Teaching from #Monks  
 
Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance website; These writings prepared as the starting point of the title are said by the abbot monks, which can be found in the 'Book of Paradise, News of the Abbot'. For today,  we have delivered to you the lesson, which we said to be useful and spiritual advise, which go along with our yesterday's teachings on how to be alert knowing the devil's tricks. We entrust you all to read and learn from it.
 
✍A lesson about food and lions
 
This is a lesson taught by one of the fathers. A lion is mighty and terrible and wonderful, but because of his belly he falls into a trap and becomes a stumbling block to man. In the same way, if a monk abandons his struggle and follows his desires, his glory will be lost and he will become a disgrace. Tim 6:10
 
✍A lesson about the earth and humility
 
Father Pemen said; "But the earth does not go down, for it is down". And he who humbles himself will not fail. It holds the water of the steep and flat land. And he who humbles himself will benefit most of all. Without his sin he stands at the right hand of Christ. They asked the old monk if God would accept the prayer of a sinner. 
 
✍Rejoice with those who rejoice, mourn with those who mourn
 
A brother monk asked a  monk: "What is the meaning of 'Rejoice with those who rejoice, mourn with those who mourn'?" He answered and said to him: Rejoice with those who rejoice means to be united in the joy of the struggling people who are making a  legacy in a spritual life, and to enjoy the good works that have been prepared for them. He replied that "Weep with those who weep" means to beg and weep to God for  sinners'   wrongdoings and sins. Matthew 6:50 Romans 12: 1 Corinthians 13:1
 
✍A lesson about friendship
 
This is a lesson learned from Saint Ephraim. A brother should forgive his brother for wronging his brother out of love, not to shame and humiliate him. If this is the case, he will lose his life because of his brother who is next to him. He said, "Live in peace among men, that you may be prepared to be called a child of God." My brother, love spiritual love, but despise carnal love. This love of the flesh is flawed for we have learned from it that the things that come from loving the flesh are gluttony, love of drink, laziness and jealousy, malice and revenge, and envy. Isaiah 5:1 Luke 13:24.
 
✍A question about prayer
 
One of the monks asked another monk that the prayer that I am praying is not known to me because I do not know the power of the word. That monk answered and said to him: Although the power of the word is unknown to you and cannot be touched, but Satan knows the power of the word and they are shocked by the word. Therefore, by praying little by little and crying out, do not stop praying until your prayer reaches God to get ahelp , so that you may be healed from hardness of heart, and be saved from constant fatigue. Ps 26:1 Eph 6:10.

(Continued)👇

--- id:890 | date:2023-04-01T21:44:01 ---
 Advices and Teaching from Monks  

(Part 2)

✍A lesson about humility of heart
 
Saint Basil. Salvation of the heart means, in any work, I am less from all people. Psalm 21:6 Matthew 18:1.

✍Father Jacob spoke about light and darkness
 
When a lamp enters a dark house, it dispels the darkness and illuminates the house. In the same way, if the fear of God enters the heart of a person, he will enlighten his heart and teach him good things and the commandments of God.
 
✍A lecture about Father Mekars
 
Second, the Archbishop of Alexandria, Athanatheos, sent a message to Father Yamo to come down from the monastery and come to Arsu. As he came along the road, he saw a singing woman and his eyes wept. The monks who were going with him asked Abba why did your eyes cry. He told them that I thought of two things: One: The fault of this woman who lost her life. The second: This woman strives to please man, but I did not strive to please God, and therefore I weep.

Source ፦ መጽሐፈ ገነት ዘውእቱ ዜና አበው
                 ከመምህር ክፍለ ማርያም ደሳለው

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs
 

--- id:892 | date:2023-04-02T21:48:49 ---


--- id:893 | date:2023-04-02T21:48:49 ---


--- id:894 | date:2023-04-02T21:48:49 ---


--- id:895 | date:2023-04-02T21:50:26 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 God appears on the #saints

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; We have sent you the following important lesson about the unity between Christ and the Church so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

To speak of saints is to speak of God. Fire manifests itself in wood. The life of the saints is also a manifestation of God. Saint Paul said: "I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ lives in me. He explained to us that it is Christ who dwells in the saints. Galatians 2:20. In his message, Saint John said, "Hereby we know that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit." : 1st John 4:13. What Christ revealed in the Holy Word, "At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you..." (John 14:20). This is why the apostles and the holy fathers who succeeded them said, "I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen." Matthew 28:20. This is when he told them that he will always be with them forever. It is when St. Paul asserts this that he says, "Christ lives in me." The righteousness of the saints not only for their souls, but also for their bodies, and for their clothes, because the clothes of St. Paul used to heal the sick. Acts 9:11 When he lived on earth for three years and six months, for Christ We are not told that the shadow of his garment healed the sick, but it was said about St. Paul. Because it was Christ himself who stayed with Paul, the sick were healed by Christ. Paul, whom Christ honored and chose, caused the sick to be healed.
 
Our Lord, `Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do'' (John 14:12), the promise he made to the saints is bound to be fulfilled. It is not said that the creature is greater than the creator and performs more miracles. Instead, when Christ Jesus was revealed in the flesh, he indicated that he would perform the miracle that he had not performed in three years and six months, on the saints until the end of time. When our Lord said, "He who believes in me", he means he who believes that he is a divine being who has become a human being. This means that he who believes that He is one with his Father's nature- the Father and his life with the Holy Spirit , in character, existence, power, will, and divinity.  But not the one who just calls his holy name in vain. But the one who truly believes like this said, "He will do the works that I do (the miracles that I have done"). the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. Whosoever eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him." (John 6:53-56) It means that as fire melts iron, so I will live by grace.
 
Saint Paul, the light of the world, said, "Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ." 1st Cor 11:1 Why don't we say Christ directly? Is it difficult for him to say 'be like Christ?' it's not! Everything that Paul did was done by Christ, because Christ himself is in Paul. If it is said that the holy believers stood on one foot and prayed for seven years, it was Christ who did it through them, but a creature cannot do that by itself. But the Lord who dwells in the saints is omnipotent, so he also made them omnipotent. We also say with understanding, "O God of Abune Takle Haimat, glory and praise be to you," ; but we cannot say "Why did you do this on him?"  .

(Continued) 👇

--- id:896 | date:2023-04-02T21:54:45 ---
God Reveals in Saints

(Part 2)

God said to Abraham 'And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:' (Genesis 12:2) is because praising Abraham is praising God who is in him. And to oppose Abraham is to oppose God, who dwells in him (and works in him). To praise the saints is to praise God, who is devoted to them (working in him). To praise Abraham is to praise oneself.

God said to Abraham 'And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:' (Genesis 12:2) is because praising Abraham is praising God who is in him. And to oppose Abraham is to oppose God, who dwells in him (and works in him). To praise the saints is to praise God, who is devoted to them (working in him). To praise Abraham is to praise oneself. Because someone praised or cursed Abraham, God did not directly say, "Blessed or cursed." When one praises Abraham, at the same moment he himself is praised. When he curses Abraham, he himself is cursed at the same moment. It is the living God whose word does not change. This is why it is said that praising the saints is praising God. Praising Abraham and praising the saints is only beneficial to oneself. Their God has praised and honored them more than they can, so our thanks are nothing to them. Abraham's God, who said, "I will bless those who bless you," is with them, so if we thank them, we are the ones who are thankful in return.
 
👉Why does Christ appear to the saints?
 
Because someone praised or cursed Abraham, God did not directly say, "Blessed or cursed." When one praises Abraham, at the same moment he himself is praised. When he curses Abraham, he himself is cursed at the same moment. It is the living God whose word does not change. This is why it is said that praising the saints is praising God. Praising Abraham and praising the saints is only beneficial to oneself. Their God has praised and honored them more than they can, so our thanks are nothing to them. Abraham's God, who said, "I will bless those who bless you," is with them, so if we thank them, we are the ones who are thankful in return.
 
👉Why does Christ appear to the saints?
 
God is the God of victory and defeat. His victory was revealed to Pharaoh and others. His defeat was revealed to the saints. Even though we are sinners, our Lord was overcome by our love and died on the cross for us. So, in short, why does Christ appear to the saints? We can see that in the following detailed points:
 
👉Because the love of the saints compels Him, He will reveal Himself to them:

 "He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself." to him.'' John 14:21:: He will be revealed to all the righteous who make the death of Christ their death, leave their warm and bright house and their possessions, wander on the wild cliffs, lick the dew, sleep on the rocks, and live a life of struggle. Also, even if some are called to live as a king/queen in the world, Christ will be revealed to all the martyrs who gave their bodies to the fire and the sword saying, "It is better for us to carry the cross of Christ's suffering." Our Loard has said "He who does not bear my cross and does not follow after me is not worthy of me, and whoever destroys his life will find it." So, thinking or believing that our Lord will not appear to the saints is like saying to the Loard that you are not faithful to your words, You are not close to those who need you .
 
(Continued) 👇

--- id:897 | date:2023-04-02T22:09:45 ---
 God Reveals in Saints

(Part 3)

Christ will appear to the saints to reward them for their labor and to honor them as they honored him.

We will simply take a small example and comment on it. We even say "thank you" to the person who invited us to tea or the person who paid us a taxi! So, how much would the Almighty Christ thank the saints who suffered so much for the sake of His Holy name! How much he really respects them! Many verses can be given, but the problem lies in knowing Christ and hearing his words and believing, even if the verses are arranged, some people could not believe. If we really knew Christ and had his faith, we would not need a verse at all. Let us cite an example of how our holy fathers served and honored Christ throughout their lives. As written in the story of Abba Tekle Apostolo and Abba Samuel Zeldba, if these fathers of ours saw someone who had received Christ's flesh and blood vomiting, they would drink the vomit of that person for the glory of His flesh and blood. Abune Zena Markos also said that when a person who received the flesh was walking on the path of an obstacle, if his feet bled, they would lick the blood and express their love and respect for Christ in all such situations. Imagine what we feel and what we do when we see someone doing it, and look at the actions of the saints! What respect indeed! So, if we say "thank you" to the person who invited us to tea, how much Christ will respect the fathers who respect him like that!
 
The moment the saints did this, our Lord appeared to them and said, "As you have honored me in front of people, I will honor you in heaven and on earth." our Lord responded to the saints for their love and respect by saying;  those who pray beliving  in my divinity and your intercession, saying ' God of Abune TekleHaimanot, God of Samuel, God of Markus, have mercy on me'. I will then forgive and have mercy.

And their righteous work has survived for us and is giving us the value of body and soul. But this is a veiled gospel, except for those who are called and chosen.
 
👉He gave them a promise, so that we may know His goodness and forgiveness.

(to be continued)

Source ፦ ከገድላት አንደበት
                አዘጋጅ ገብረ ሥላሴ
                1997

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:899 | date:2023-04-03T21:37:21 ---


--- id:900 | date:2023-04-03T21:37:21 ---


--- id:901 | date:2023-04-03T21:37:21 ---


--- id:902 | date:2023-04-03T21:37:36 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Repentance 

Repentance is an integral part of the Christian faith, and it is a necessary step for individuals seeking to reconcile with God. The concept of repentance is not limited to the New Testament but is also present in the Old Testament, where the prophets called on the Israelites to repent and turn away from their wicked ways.

Repentance is a process that involves acknowledging one's sins, seeking forgiveness, and committing to change. It requires a humble heart and a willingness to confess one's wrongdoing. In the New Testament, John the Baptist urged the people to "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand" (Matthew 3:2). Jesus also emphasized the importance of repentance, saying, "I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance" (Luke 5:32).

Repentance is not just a one-time event but a continuous process of turning away from sin and towards God. It involves a change of heart and mind, leading to a transformation of one's behavior. This change is only possible through the power of the Holy Spirit, which helps believers to overcome their sinful desires and live a righteous life.

Repentance is also a prerequisite for forgiveness. In the Bible, God promises to forgive those who repent and turn away from their sins. King David, for example, repented of his sin with Bathsheba and received forgiveness from God (Psalm 51). The Apostle Peter also encouraged his listeners to repent and be baptized for the forgiveness of their sins (Acts 2:38).

Repentance is not just a personal act but also a communal one. In the book of Jonah, the prophet warned the people of Nineveh to repent, and they responded by humbling themselves and turning away from their wickedness. The prophet Jeremiah also called on the people of Israel to repent and turn back to God (Jeremiah 3:12-13).

Finally, repentance is an essential part of the Christian journey, as it helps believers to grow in their faith and relationship with God. It is through repentance that Christians can experience God's grace and mercy and draw closer to Him. As the Apostle Paul wrote, "Godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret, but worldly sorrow brings death" (2 Corinthians 7:10).

Dear members of John's Repentance page, in conclusion we say to you that repentance is a vital aspect of the Christian faith, and it is essential for believers seeking to reconcile with God. It involves acknowledging one's sins, seeking forgiveness, and committing to change. Repentance is a continuous process, leading to a transformation of one's behavior and a closer relationship with God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:908 | date:2023-04-05T09:31:49 ---
👉Question :- Beloved of the Lord I have two questions

What is the meaning of #Psalm 68:31

✍Answer👇

"Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God". Psalm 68:31
 
This is a word used to refer to what the Egyptians did and tribute for. First of all, when we know Egypt and Ethiopia both in the history of the world and in the history of the Bible, they are two sides of the same coin. This has gone beyond history and we have reached it in our time, where by we can even simply understand about Ethiopia and Egypt  by simply seeing and listening current happenings. That is why they are inseparable sides of the same coin; Both positively and negatively. Their stories are not different whether they are being treated like a caste or they are living close to each other in friendship. The history of the Bible and the history of our church actually tell us that in the past, Ethiopia was called Ethiopia, including Egypt, and that there were also many countries that Ethiopia includes. 

Therefore, it cannot be denied that the Egyptians paid a lot of money to make Ethiopia a friend. Basically, Ethiopia is the first country in terms of history of religion and history of greatness. We are saying this not only because we live in it or because we in the Orthodox religion and want the honor and glory of Ethiopian Orthodox history, but because it is true. 

Princes, princes, dignitaries, rulers come from Egypt, or the mediators who are said to bring gifts of honor to Ethiopia, come to Ethiopia saying that we will pay and offer gifts. We now know who Egypt and Ethiopia are in the history of the church in the Old Testament and the New Testament. When Ethiopia's name is mentioned in the Holy Bible, Ethiopia is always with God. It is known that she is with God and is not separated from worship. Even when one look at the Old Testament and the Torah system and may say that it is Jerusalem, but if we tell the truth, Ethiopia is the first in performing the correct system and following the correct worship of God. While Israel, when she was the center of God's prophets, all those prophecies were spoken to her, all those hopes were given to her, all those parables were explained to her, and above all, while she was the one to whom God's great work was revealed, but how many times did she sin against God? But in the history of Ethiopia, the era that was clearly and boldly stated is that it is a country that worshiped God in the era of 1000 years. In fact, the scholars said that it was even before that. Ethiopia's luck is God and she has no other worship. Even in this era, no history has been written that says Ethiopians have  left a single day of true worship and worshiped idols, grieved God, and suffered plagues and wrath. Let alone in our history, there is no such history written about the other nations who even do not believe.
 
Not only the Bible but many stories have recorded how much Israel has disappointed God, and committed adultery by worshiping idols. At all, they now say we do not accept the true God, the God who is a man, the God they hoped for, the God to whom so many prophecies have been made; It means that they are forbidden from receiving and seeing.   They were the ones who were waiting for him, more than we did; they were hoping that He would be born from them. But when he was born, they did not accept him, and even hanged him to death. Therefore, since Ethiopia is great in all of this, as she has never stopped worshiping God, no matter how many hardships it has.
 
As for the Egyptians, when we speak the truth, we can easily see in history that the words spoken by David in Psalm 68:31 (the word that our member asked us to explain), actually the Egyptians paid tribute to Ethiopia, and presented a gift (Amaha) to Ethiopia. Even in our country's history, Emperor Zara David gave Ethiopia the  cross (Gamade Meskelu), which is more than a gift of gifts of honor (Amha). Leaving aside the rest, this alone is proof enough.

(Continued)👇

--- id:909 | date:2023-04-05T09:32:04 ---
(Continued part)👆👇

Another issue related to the Nile River is that part of nation consider Ethiopia as an enemy, passing it on to their grandchildren, saying that the violence they experienced when they bowed to Ethiopia did not come out of their feeling. Even today, even in this age of civilization, while we are able to get the water of the Nile basin in the amount we want and expect to provide sufficient services for all of us; that ancient history has not disappeared from some of them and they still see Ethiopia as a threat and an enemy in the case of the Nile. So,  it means that the issue has reached this point in our time.
 
Ethiopia is one of the most feared countries in terms of manpower and war power, and the Egyptians are also afraid of it. Secondly, what Ethiopia is most afraid of is the Nile issue. Even today, in the 22nd century, many fear Ethiopia. Because Ethiopia always stretches out her hands to God, her greatness (feared by others) and her majesty make her special because she always pray and streach her hand to God, so the spirit fights them. In its ancient history, even Egypt, Libya, Yemen, Sudan, Djibouti, Somalia, and Eritrea (in fact, Eritrea is separated just yesterday ) these are all Ethiopians. Moses' father-in-law, Jethro, was called a Libyan priest. Many stories relate that Ethiopia was the country of Jethro or the land where Jethro the Libyan lived. Ethiopia, which is still feared, the world of David, will stretch out its hands to God, therefore because God is its God candidate because God is with it in many things, all its terrors and all its enemies will bow to Ethiopia. Yes,  Ethiopia is distinguished by its work and purpose; due to ths, its enemies are many.
 
As we have known about Egypt from the beginning of the Bible, as the history of the Bible tells us, one of the origins of its recognition is that Jacob's son, Joseph. Joseph,  the youngest of his brothers,  was sold to an Egyptian merchant for silver by the cruelty of his brothers and arrived in Egypt. This did not happen by accident. His father, Jacob, longed for Joseph, and his eyes were sore from weeping, and he mourned in all his old age. Whose example is Joseph selling to the Egyptian merchant for silver? And we saw how God honored Joseph in Egypt. We have seen how God was with Joseph and protected him, and revealed the secret to him. After that, we saw how God made Joseph loyal to Egypt and to the king of Egypt, he was given more respect than the natives.  

And later, when we see all this history, how Joseph helped Jacob and his children and saved them when they were exiled through the trials and famine of history, we will understand who Egypt is. When the Lord was born, even though there were many countries that were considered as a better country at the time, He fled to Egypt. This is not without reason. In History, we see Egypt was a country that lived as a place of worship for the gods.

(Continued)👇

--- id:910 | date:2023-04-05T09:32:20 ---
(Continued, Part 3)

As St. Mark taught us in the New Testament, when we look at their relationship with us in the unified religion: we see the historical relationship between Ethiopia and Egypt. Andy then we see how the Israelites stayed in Egypt for 400 years after the persecution of Joseph and finally returned to the Holy Land. When our Lord himself made this story a realized truth, as we said above, we were told how our Lord went down to Egypt and returned to bless Ethiopia and returned to His country. In the New Testament, we see that Saint Mark went there and established the chair of Ethiopia and Egypt. When we look at the seat of St. Mark today, we know how St. Mark taught that country not only by his physical presence, but also by all his miracles in his teaching and how he brought them from worshiping gods to worshiping God.

David explores the past, witnesses the actions of his time, and talks about the future. So from now on, it is possible to tell this story about what will happen in Ethiopia and Egypt in the future. This is to say that our member will understand this thoughts, and we hope we provided you to have a clue to know the history, the historical and religious issues of Ethiopia and Egypt, who is the power, who is the follower and the current situation. It is known that Ethiopia is a powerful country and that it is a country that not only Egypt but also other countries bow down. The reason why she is still feared and threatened by others, including Egypt, is because she is with God and always stretches out her hands to God. This indicates that her relationship with God is firm to the end. They fear Ethiopia not because they are superior to us in terms of wealth, and military, but because it is a country that lives in holiness. That is why, because Ethiopia worships God, not only Egypt, but all other countries, his spirit will fight against them. Even Europeans could not sleep without thinking about Ethiopia.  Why and Who is she? Because unlike the rest of the world, it is a country that worships God every day, almost each hours. So, she is feared by others due to her history and grace. Let alone Ethiopia, even an individual who obeys God, just because God is with him, is afraid and shocked by his majesty. In the same way, Europe, America, and other countries fear her for this reason because God is with her.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:918 | date:2023-04-05T21:45:45 ---


--- id:919 | date:2023-04-05T21:45:45 ---


--- id:920 | date:2023-04-05T21:45:45 ---


--- id:921 | date:2023-04-05T21:46:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 God Reveals in #Saints

(Part 4)

✍Christ, the Savior of the world, will appear to the saints to give them a promise, so that we may know his goodness and forgiveness:
 
To begin with, we must understand that it is for our benefit that He chose the saints from their mother's womb, honored them, approved them and made them live in struggle. God chooses and raises up the saints only because He wants us to be saved. When he raised Lazarus from the dead for four days, it was the 'Megnez' (Unwrapping the cloth he was wrapped in when he died) that caused him to be saved. Our Lord, He who created eyes on a dry forehead, made the blind man see by bathing in the water of Siloam. He also gave us His saints to be the cause of our salvation. It is we who benefit and are saved by the promise made to them, not they. God made them for a reason. Did you know that there are fathers who were given a promise even to the Gentiles? (We will see their covenant in detail later.) The fact that Christ gave a covenant to John the Baptist, to the Blessed seed (Zerea Biruk), to Christ the breath(Estenfase Chiristos), and even to the Gentiles, shows His love for all mankind. Our God is more compassionate and merciful than we think. While we should appreciate his forgiveness and mercy, we could not break away from the mindset that existed two thousand years before His birth.
 
One thing needs to be thought through. Our Lord said in the Gospel, "He that receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward." Matthew 10:38-42 Let's take this word of our Lord Jesus Christ and think like this: 40 or 50 years of fasting, prayer, and hunger; Think of the righteous people who have been fighting for many years while thinking about those suffering of thirst. Also, think of the martyrs who gave their lives to fire and sword for the name's sake, and let us come to the Holy Word. Our Lord said, "He who accepts the righteous in the name of the righteous will receive the price of the righteous." Note that this means that when our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ said, if a person gives only a cold cup of water to the little ones in the name of the righteous person, he will receive the full value of the righteous person. He didn't say will give half, or 5%, 10% , or even 40%. What He said is, "I will give him the full price of the righteous." It doesn't matter, don't sit locked up for 40 or 50 years like the righteous, and even if you don't surrender your body to the fire and the sword  like the martyrs, but help the little ones  giving "only a cold cup of water" in the name of the righteous, and take the their full value. That's what He is telling us. This only shows the mercy, forgiveness and kindness of our Lord Jesus Christ. Understanding and knowing this and not believing that the Holy Word is applicable is a failure and unluckiness.
 
When the age of the saints comes to their rest, our Lord will appear in glory and give them a promise. And their promise is for us, not them. Therefore, God has revealed his love, mercy, forgiveness, and goodness to us and to the nations as well, by appearing to the saints and giving a promise of mercy. In the beginning, he chose the saints from their mother's womb and gave them to us to be the means of salvation. We will never ask Christ why did you do this! Can anyone ask? 'After you created an eye for him on a dry forehead, why did you order him to go and bathe in the Solomon River so that he could see?' ; Or is there is someone who can say, "Why did you order Lazarus to be untied after you raised him from the dead, why did you order them to untie the cloth (Megnez)?" and ; Will there be anyone who says 'Why do you save making saints the reason'

(Continued)👇

--- id:922 | date:2023-04-05T21:48:02 ---
 God Reveals in Saints

(Part 5)

✍Our God will keep His promise for a thousand generations.
 
We find it written in Gedalat (the books recorded by the church that contain the history of the saints' struggles) that the almighty Christ made a promise to all the righteous martyrs during their rest day, saying, "I have shown you mercy for so many generations." We will see what it means and its biblical basis:
 
God spoke unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you; And with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth. And I will establish my covenant with you; >: Gen 9:8-16.
 
"O LORD God of heaven, the great and terrible God, that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that love him and observe his commandments.... (Neh 1:5-6); "O Lord, the great and terrible God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him, and to them that keep his commandments;..." (T.Dan 9:4); "Know therefore that the LORD thy God, he is God, the faithful God, which keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations; And repay them that hate him to their face, to destroy them: he will not be slack to him that hateth him, he will repay him to his face. Thou shalt therefore keep the commandments, and the statutes, and the judgments, which I command thee this day, to do them. Wherefore it shall come to pass, if ye hearken to these judgments, and keep, and do them, that the LORD thy God shall keep unto thee the covenant and the mercy which he swore unto thy fathers: And he will love thee, and bless thee, and multiply thee: he will also bless the fruit of thy womb, and the fruit of thy land, thy corn, and thy wine, and thine oil, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep, in the land which he swore unto thy fathers to give thee.' Deuteronomy 7:9-13.
 
Wherefore the LORD said unto Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and will give it to thy servant. Notwithstanding in thy days I will not do it for David thy father's sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son. Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom; but will give one tribe to thy son for David my servant's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake which I have chosen." 1 Kings 11:11-13 "Turn again, and tell Hezekiah the captain of my people, Thus saith the LORD, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will heal thee: on the third day thou shalt go up unto the house of the LORD. ›› 2 Kings 20:5.
 
"Moses prayed before God, his God; Think of your servants Abraham and Isaac and Israel, to whom you promised yourself, "I will make your descendants more numerous than the stars in the sky, and I will give all this land that I have spoken about to your descendants, and they will inherit it forever." And God had mercy on the evil that he intended to do to his people." Exodus 33:11-14
 
All these verses that we have seen above tell us that God was with our holy fattens and that He protected all their generations with His covenant. Our Lord Christ Himself assured us that the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob will abide by His covenant forever. Jesus answered and said to them:..I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. And when the multitude heard this, they were astonished at his doctrine.'' Matthew 22:30-32.

(To be continued)
 
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:931 | date:2023-04-06T21:40:11 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 God Reveals in #Saints

(Part 6)

God has made His covenant with our forefathers like Abraham in terms of conduct and religion. 'I have made my covenant with my chosen one; And I will not profane my promise, nor change what comes out of my lips," says the Holy Word.

(Ps 88:3, 34): In the latter days, Christ Himself, the Savior of the world, said, "I am with you always until the end of the age (Matthew 28:20); He who receives you receives me" (Mathew 10:40), how wonderful is this promise that he gave to the saints? Remember that he said "heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not" (Matthew 24:35); "“Do not think that I came to destroy the Law or the Prophets. I did not come to destroy but to fulfill. For assuredly, I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle will by no means pass from the law until all is fulfilled." (Matthew 5:17); "It is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail." (Luke 16:17) Are we to say to the true God who said this, You are not faithful to your word?
 
✍We know about God to the extent that He revealed Himself to the saints and our ancestors.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:932 | date:2023-04-06T21:52:10 ---
God Reveals in Saints

(Part 7)

✍What we know about God is the extent to which He revealed Himself to our fathers.
 
Our forefathers, the prophets, prophesied that the Son of God would be born, and our forefathers, the evangelists and apostles, said, "He was born, he was baptized, he died, he was buried, he rose, he ascended" and they told us the good news. If the prophets prophesy, it is as much as God spoke to them, if the evangelists and apostles tell us what happened from the birth to the ascension, it is what they saw with their eyes, what they touched with their hands, what God the Son revealed to them about Himself.
 
The revelation of God does not stop with the passage of time. He has been revealed to the prophets, to the apostles, and to all the righteous martyrs during their lifetime. He will be revealed to and through the saints now and in the future. And when our holy fathers and mothers said goodbye to this world at the end, God revealed the way in their lives and passed it on to us.
 
To praise God saying "the God of our fathers" is a great praise. Because we know God through them. We can only know God to the extent that He has revealed Himself to His saints. We cannot go beyond this, nor do we have the right. In fact, as much as God revealed Himself to our holy fathers, we have a duty to believe only what they told us about Him. We can never know or research beyond what they have revealed to us. But if we say let's ignore it or go astray from it, the outcome is to be cursed with an ignorant mind. "All that can be known about God is clear from Him. His invisible nature, which is His eternal power and His divinity, is known and clearly seen from the creation of the world. Therefore, knowing God, those who did not honor and praise Him according to His divinity lost their excuses. They became deaf when they said.. As much as they did not like to know God, God gave them over to a senseless mind to do what they should not do," said the apostle. Romans 1-19-28.
 
✍To Speak about Saints, it is Necessary to Believe in the Gospel First.
 
Believing in the gospel does not mean saying "I believed and I am saved". First, it is necessary to believe every word of the gospel as true. It is absolutely necessary to believe in every word of what Christ has said and to put it into practice. If a person believes in the gospel he heard, but not faithful to the holy word and cannot live a Christian life, he cannot say that he believes in the gospel. Therefore, before talking about the saints, we must first believe and fulfill every word that our Lord spoke in the Gospel. So what did our Lord say about the saints in the Holy Gospel? We will see next.
 
It is important to remember the words of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in his Gospel. The words He spoke are: "He who receives the righteous in the name of the righteous shall receive the reward of the righteous." Whoever gives one of these little ones a cold cup of water in the name of a disciple, I tell you the truth, his price will not be lost" (Matthew 10:38-423). If we do not believe and do what Christ said, then we do not believe in Christ himself and in the gospel. The issue is not knowing or not knowing about the saints, but knowing Christ himself and believing his word and doing it.
 
(To be Continued)

Source ፦ ከገድላት አንደበት
                አዘጋጅ ገብረ ሥላሴ
                1997

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:936 | date:2023-04-07T21:30:17 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 God Reveals in #Saints

(Part 8)

(Continued) 👆

If we doubt that the saints performed miracles, we are doubting Christ who said, "If you have faith the size of a grain of mustard seed, if you call this mountain to pass from here to there, it will pass; Nothing shall fail you" (Matthew 17:20). It is important to note that if we doubt this, we are saying, "You cannot perform a miracle on your saints." To the Lord our God. How can we doubt the miracles of saints when He himself said: "Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me will do the works that I do; He will do more than that, for I go to the Father and I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Father may be glorified for the sake of the Son. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it" (John 14:12).

If we doubt this, we must know that we are indirectly saying to Christ, "You are not faithful to your word."
 
✍We express our love for Christ only when we hear his word and do it
 
Your loved one's word will be honored. And the order will be fulfilled. If we love Christ, we will hear his word and put it into practice. We will carry out the orders. This is the only way to know that we love Christ. And He himself said, "If you love me, keep my commandments"! John 14:15. "If anyone loves me, he will keep my word; And my Father loves him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him. He who does not love me does not keep my word" John 14:20-24); "But whoever keeps His word, God's love has truly been fulfilled in him. This is how we know that we are in Him.'' 1 John 2:6 Therefore, as we have seen above, we must believe that what our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ said about the saints will come true. Otherwise, it means that we do not believe in the word of our Lord and our God. 
 
✍God will make the tongue of the saints his tongue
 
When God spoke about Moses and Aaron, he said to Moses: "And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth: and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye shall do. And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people: and he shall be, even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God.." Exodus 4:15-16


Source ፦ ከገድላት አንደበት
                አዘጋጅ ገብረ ሥላሴ
                1997

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:939 | date:2023-04-08T21:30:46 ---


--- id:941 | date:2023-04-08T21:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the feast of #Palm #Sunday, #Hosanna 

“Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion! Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem! Behold your King is coming to you; He is just and having salvation, lowly and riding on a donkey, a colt, the foal of a donkey.” (Zech 9:9)

This is how the Lord invites us to rejoice and be extremely glad, through the words of Zechariah the prophet, on the day Jesus Christ enters Jerusalem. Hence we hope to take our share and enjoy that spiritual happiness on this day. Jesus has entered unto us this day to reign over us. Then rise O beloved ones with praises and rejoice and spread your clothes, take off the old, raise the banner of victory in your life and hold the palm branches in your hands. Say to the Lord: Amen, come O our Lord Jesus, reign over us, reign over our heart, like the temple in Jerusalem. Drive out those who hinder our worship…for our hearts have become the den of thieves. The world has entered it in negligence and has ruined its beauty, though it was once the house of prayers. O Lord drive out those who sold doves, overturn the tables of the money exchangers. Purify our hearts so that they can return to you. Once more fill our heart with the incense of prayers and the offerings of praises.

Hosanna
This is our praise for today. This is our asking of the Lord, ‘Save us…save us.’ Today is the day of salvation. On the dawn of this day the Lord entered the house of Zacchaeus and said, “Today salvation has come to this house.” (Luke 19:9). Today Timaeus the blind cried out saying, “Jesus Son of David, have mercy on me!” (Mark 10:48). So the Lord opened his eyes. Do not stop repeating the name of salvation that is for our Lord Jesus Christ…experience the power of His salvation and the strength of His arms.

Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord
The Lord has preceded that by saying, “I say to you, you shall not see Me until the time comes when you say, ‘Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!’” (Luke 13:35). This phrase benefits our hearts to accept the kingdom of Jesus. Then we can welcome Him to reign in our hearts. We hope to always say it to the Lord so that we can see His face….we always say this phrase before the reading of the Gospel, in every liturgy, to welcome the words of the Gospel in a prepared heart. For he who accepts the Word accepts Christ the King, because He is the incarnate Word of God.

The characteristics of the Kingdom of Christ as it has been declared unto us today:

The King of Peace:
The first thing that was declared in the Kingdom of Christ was the great rejoice and the peaceful heart. Since the first moments of His birth, the multitude of angels rejoiced with the everlasting praises, “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace…” (Luke 2:14). Hence, today the multitudes glorify the Lord saying, “Peace in heaven and glory in the highest.” (Luke 19:38). Peace is just one of the signs that Christ is among us, “Peace I leave with you, My peace I give to you.” (John 14:27). Therefore, if we miss this peaceful heart and the spiritual joy, then we are not ready for Jesus to live within us.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:942 | date:2023-04-08T21:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

The King of victory:
Christ has come to destroy the deeds of Satan. Our faith in Jesus is a victory over the world, over death, over bodily desires and over the love of the world. Jesus has raised Lazarus from the dead, so we were victorious over the fear that threatened our lives. That is why the multitudes rejoiced on this day and went out to meet Him, for they heard that he carried out those miracles, “The justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.” (Rom. 3:26) He who accepts Jesus as King on this day will never be enslaved, for Jesus has reigned over us and gave us freedom to become the sons of God.

The King of Tears:
He who was victorious over death, cried over Lazarus who died. He who sanctified the temple has cried over Jerusalem. This day Jesus is in our midst. He is the King who is crying for those who are laying around us in the desire of the world and sins, the ones who have ignored the time for their salvation. This day Jesus is in our midst crying for those slain by sin. Those are the ones who have rejected to shelter under the spread of the cross and the shadows of the wings of His love. On this day, we hope to recognize the extent of His tears, enter into the partnership of His love and sacrifice for mankind.

The King of meekness:
Jesus neither reign with the sword, nor with the power of mankind. The kingdom of Jesus is not spread by wars, or by a materialistic power….Jesus is a meek King, gentle and lowly at heart. He gently reigns, not with vehemence. He who accepts the kingdom of Christ learns to be like his teacher. He does not shout, does not feud and no one on the streets hear his voice. Every time we lose our meekness and humility, then we have lost the characteristics of Jesus and we are no longer in His likeness.

The law of Christ is, “It is enough for a disciple that he be like his teacher, and a servant like his master.” (Matt. 10:25)

Christ is the King over the children
One of the major characteristics of the Kingdom of Christ is the likeness of children. That is why the Lord has previously said, “Unless you are converted and become as little children, you will by no means enter the kingdom of heaven.” (Matt 18:3)
John the evangelic witnessed in the Revelation one hundred forty four thousand children in heaven…a large band with amazing secrets. Also Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit and said, “I thank You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and revealed them to babes.” (Luke 10:21) This day the children are like the angels praising without ceasing. Today, we need to return to our childhood, the warmth of love, which is pure without question and without glamor or pride. The closer we approach our first childhood we recognize the kingdom of Christ.

Jesus Reigned with Love
Today, Jesus entered Jerusalem to be crucified. This is the objective. He set his sight toward Jerusalem. For Jesus, the cross was His secret throne, on which the Lord has reigned with love. He has stretched His arms to encompass all mankind, and has sacrificed Himself for the whole world.
The cross is the sign of the kingdom of Christ. It is the sign of the Son of Man and at the same time it is the sign of the overwhelming love. It is the sign of sacrifice…through the cross there is no room for selfishness, self esteem or a place for hatred, detest or resentment. When we enter the kingdom of Jesus on this day it means our acceptance to become deep in love, every day, not only for our kin or close ones but for everyone. Here, love does not know any distinction or peculiarity.

If only, on this day, we persistently ask, ‘Your Kingdom come…blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord…save us.’

Source ፦ St. Mark Coptic Orthodox Church LA USA. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:944 | date:2023-04-09T22:02:59 ---


--- id:945 | date:2023-04-09T22:04:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾The first day of #Holy #Week: Holy Monday 

This day is the day of cleansing the temple and cursing the fig tree. "In the morning, when He returned to the city, He was hungry. He saw a fig tree by the road and approached it. He found no fruit on it, except leaves. And He said to it, "May you never bear fruit again!" The fig tree then withered." Matthew 21:18-22, Mark 11:11. The evangelist Luke said, "A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard and came looking for fruit on it but found none." Luke 13:6-9. By using the fig tree as a metaphor for human life, our Savior Christ urges us to turn away from sin and to repent and live a life of worshiping God and bearing good fruit. 

The scriptures clearly explain that a person who does not repent or return will be cut off and thrown into the fire, just as the fig tree withers and is cut off. "Even now the axe is lying at the root of the trees; every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire." Matthew 3:10. The fig represents the house of Israel, and the fruit represents faith and works.

All of us Christians must bear the fruits of faith and works. We must keep and fulfill the words of the book so that we will not be unfruitful and ashamed when the Lord comes. "Be fruitful in every good work and increase in the knowledge of God." As we commemorate the first day of the Passion, let us remember that human life should not be toiled in vain, withered, or thrown into the fire.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:953 | date:2023-04-10T22:22:16 ---


--- id:954 | date:2023-04-10T22:22:44 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Holy #Tuesday 

Passion Tuesday is known as Question Day in the Christian Orthodox faith. 

Why is it called 'Question day'?

The scribes and Pharisees asked Jesus by whose authority he taught and performed miracles and drove out merchants from the temple on Monday. They questioned the King who was not appointed by them, the one who stretched out the heavens in His wisdom, who established the earth on the waters, whose throne was in heaven and whose footstool was the earth. Jesus responded by asking them where John the Baptist's baptismal authority came from, whether it was from heaven or from human origin. If they answered that it was from heaven, he asked them why they did not believe him. If they said it was from human origin, the people considered John to be a prophet so they were scared of the people. Hence they refused to answer His question. Their motive for asking this question was not because their hearts were full of faith, but because they doubted Jesus and were envious of him. The miracles Jesus performed were great, and His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. His dominion is from generation to generation, as we learn from Daniel 4:3.

Jesus said to them, "Truly I tell you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes are entering the kingdom of God ahead of you." (Matthew 21:28) On this day, because He taught a long lesson in the temple, it is called "the day of teaching." He taught that those who have strayed from religion and those who have separated from the love of God should be taught and counseled.

May God keep us from doubt and lack of understanding. May He give us a God-fearing heart so we can bear fruit and inherit His kingdom.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:963 | date:2023-04-11T22:04:43 ---


--- id:964 | date:2023-04-11T22:04:43 ---


--- id:965 | date:2023-04-11T22:04:43 ---


--- id:966 | date:2023-04-11T22:04:52 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Holy #Wednesday 

Passion Wednesday is called the Jewish Council.

Today is the day when the Jews and the high priests gave advice on what to do with our Savior Jesus Christ. David said in his psalms, "They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones" (Psalm 83:3). In Psalm 2:2, he said, "The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against His anointed."

In the past, the people of Israel were motivated by zeal to kill their brother Joseph. Saint Moses, the chief of the prophets, said, "And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him" (Genesis 37:18-19).

There was also a time when they rose up to kill Moses and Aaron, who were leading them on the road the promise land. "But all the congregation bade stone them with stones" (Torah Numbers 14:10). 

The points agreed upon by the council for the prosecution to sue our Savior today are:

He made himself the Son of God (John 19:7).
He claimed to be the king (Matthew 2:1).
He said, "Before Abraham was, I am" (John 8:58).
He said, "I and my Father are one" (John 10:30).
He claimed, "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father" (John 14:9).
He broke the Sabbath day (John 5:18).
He said, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up" (John 2:19).

For these reasons, they decided to kill him and make him die a bitter death on a cross. They agreed together that according to their law, a person who is crucified is not whipped, but a person who is whipped is not crucified. They whipped him 6666 times; they hung him on the cross and nailed him with 5 iron nails. They were mocking him with a rod saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" They hung the innocent God in the midst of the crooked bandits. But the Lord is humble and merciful. There is no falsehood found in his mouth. Because of the gentleness of his speech, he does not quench a smoldering wick.

This day is also called called the day of good ointment. When our Lord Jesus Christ was sitting in Simon's house, and Mary of Bethany took expensive ointment and anointed his head. Luke 7:37-39 says, "And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment, And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment." This woman who ended her life in shame and sin but heard and understood God's divinity and received His mercy was forgiven for her sins because her tears and humility. She is an example to all of us that even the greatest of sinners can be saved through faith and repentance.

Today, we remember her tears of repentance and reflect on our own sins and shortcomings. We ask for God's mercy and forgiveness, just as the woman did, and strive to live a life that is pleasing to Him.

On this day, we also remember Judas, who betrayed our Lord for thirty pieces of silver. His actions serve as a reminder that even those who have walked with Jesus can fall into sin and turn away from Him.

Continued 👇

--- id:967 | date:2023-04-11T22:05:04 ---
(Continue) 👆

As we journey towards the crucifixion and resurrection of our Lord, let us keep these lessons in our hearts and strive to live a life that is faithful and obedient to God's will. May we seek His forgiveness and mercy, and may His love and grace guide us always.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:968 | date:2023-04-12T21:31:19 ---
👉🏾 I was molested by a priest when I was young, I now doubt the truthfulness of the #Church, what do you advice me? 

👉Question: Hello, 

I was once molested by a priest when I was around 17 years old. At that time I didn't process it because it was a traumatic event. As an adult now, I look back and I have a hard time trusting people in church. I know that there is a difference between the Holy church and the people within.I know that God and his church is true and perfect and that the people that attend the church are imperfect and sinners. However, it's sad that the place that people go to for peace can have people that can be evil in it. I know that the devil is also at work here but If we can't be safe in church, where else are we supposed to be safe? 

I also sometimes wonder how people in church, especially a church leader like a priest, do such a thing. One of the doubts that I have and my question is : Is church a place that's used to manipulate people for their own benefits? Does God even exist or is the church a system that is set up for using people? I know that this is just a doubt and that God is Holy and perfect and that it's an issue of the people in the church but I do wonder about this sometimes and it creates a doubt.  

Thank you, 

Answer: The word Church has three meanings. The first is a building, which is a church, where the word of God is preached, Christ's holy body and precious blood is served, where believes participate in the different mysteries of Christianity and where they perform their worship. This is called the Church.

The second is the union of believers, the congregation, which is also called the church. This becomes very clear in Matthew chapter 18, verses 15-20, where it says: "Moreover if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he hears you, you have gained your brother. But if he will not hear, take with you one or two more, that ‘by the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.’ And if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let him be to you like a heathen and a tax collector." When it says "to the church," it does not mean the building or the stone, but the assembly, the believers, the union who gather in the church and praise God. So, the union of believers is called the congregation church. This union includes holy angels, holy people, and Christ as the head of the church. Those who are alive on earth, those who are in heaven, those who are in the hidden world with God, and where the Virgin Mary is, are all part of the Church.

From the two definitions above, it is incorrect to say that the Church is wrong; an individual who is a member of the Church may or may not be wrong. When we say the Church, we mean the one founded by God, including those who have finished their struggle, those who have not finished, the monastic fathers who are hidden, Saint Michael, Saint Gabriel, and the Virgin Mary. The Church is a united union, and while a deacon can make a mistake, we need to recognize this.

According to Orthodox teaching, the Church does not teach that even a bishop cannot make mistakes. Until he finishes his struggle, the bishop, monk, and priest may or may not make mistakes, but the Church never makes mistakes. The individual and the Church are not the same. They are separate. Doubt arises when we link the individual and the Church together. If we all think that way, we are mistaken.

Thirdly, Every believer who is baptized and receives Christ's holy body, which is the dwelling place of Christ, is called a church. As 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 16 states: "Do you not know that you are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you?" However, every believer, every individual, or Orthodox believer can be God's abode without separating from the community. If he is separated from the community, he cannot be God's abode and hence can't be called a church.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:969 | date:2023-04-12T21:33:12 ---
(Continued) 👆

For example, the devil, who was created as the archangel, made a mistake. But the other angels didn't follow him because they know the Church is right. The wrong devil mislead Adam but all of Adam's children didn't follow Adam's path thinking that Adam was right. Adam realized his mistake and returned.

In the same way, the people of Noah's time were wrong, and Noah did not follow them thinking they were right. He opposed their ideas. The people of Lot's time were also wrong, and Lot did not say to those who were wrong, "You are right." Our fathers knew that individuals make mistakes, so they stayed where they were, and God continued to speak to them. Judas, one of the twelve apostles chosen after Christ became a man, made a mistake, and the apostles at that time did not say that Judas was right. Instead, they condemned his actions. The sons of the priest Eli were doing abominable things. One of these acts was to sleep with women in the holy place. These were the priests, and they were blaspheming. Even though the priests made mistakes, the Church itself was not wrong. God punished them for their sins, and caused the Ark to be captured by Zion, Eli and his sons to die in the same day. This illustrates that while individuals may commit abominable acts, the Church as an institution is not at fault.

Similarly, in the case of Judas, although he betrayed Jesus, the other apostles did not follow him and instead continued to spread the word of God. This highlights the fact that even though individuals within the Church may make mistakes, the Church itself is founded on the teachings of Christ and is therefore incapable of making mistakes.

In summary, while individuals may make mistakes and fall short of the values upheld by the Church, it is important to distinguish between the actions of individuals and the Church as an institution. The Church is founded on the word of God and the teachings of Christ, and is therefore incapable of making mistakes.

There may be priests who behave like this, selling their honor and denying what they believe. However, just because some individuals act this way, it is not right to say that the Church is wrong. We must look for those who are truthful, as Christ said, "I became sick for them without being sick so that I could bring them back."

In Hebrews chapter 13, verse 7, it says, "Remember your leaders, who spoke the word of God to you. Consider the outcome of their way of life and imitate their faith." We should not look to Arius but to St. Cyril, not to the devil but to St. Gabriel. We should think about those who said, "The believers should not suffer while we are here. We must suffer before the believers." 

The Church was founded on the blood of Christ. The mission and purpose of the Church is to convert and baptize the unbelievers. After that, it is to strengthen those who believe and are baptized, and then to sanctify those who persevere by receiving the holy body and the precious blood. The final task is to empower those who believe, who have received the holy body and the precious blood, and who are holy and persevering, to enter the kingdom of heaven. We must not forget that there are those who cause us to hate the true fathers of the Church. When we see fathers who are not true fathers, wearing the clothes of fathers, holding a cross, wrapped in shawls, and wearing robes, we should not be ashamed of our religion, but we should recognize that they do not represent the true Orthodox mothers and fathers, and they are not the fathers of the Orthodox believers.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:970 | date:2023-04-12T21:36:02 ---
(Continues) 👆

Let us seek the truth and separate it from falsehood. Let us do the work that God loves and remain steadfast in His house until the end of our lives. Let us repent of our sinful nature, accept His holy body and His precious blood, and inherit the everlasting inheritance of the kingdom of heaven.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:971 | date:2023-04-12T22:37:58 ---


--- id:972 | date:2023-04-12T22:37:58 ---


--- id:973 | date:2023-04-12T22:37:58 ---


--- id:974 | date:2023-04-12T22:38:04 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Holy #Thursday 

This day holds great significance in the Orthodox church as it marks the beginning of the Lord's tribulation. This day is known by several names, each with a different significance.

The first name is the Thursday of Prayer. This name refers to the prayer that Christ, the savior of the world, made before his capture by his enemies, serving as an example to us. This event is recorded in Matthew 26:36-46. 

The second name is the Day of Mystery. It refers to the event where Christ said, "This is my body that will be cut on the cross for you," and "drink from it, for this is my blood shed on the cross for you," while lifting the cup and thanking God.

The third name is the Thursday of the new testament. This name refers to the day when Christ revealed the end of the sacrifices in the old testament and offered himself as a beloved sacrifice for the salvation of the world. On this day, He made an eternal covenant with His own blood for Adam and all his children. Luke 22:20 records this event.

The fourth name is the Thursday of cleansing which signifies the day when Christ washed the feet of His disciples as a sign of complete humility. This act is recorded in John 13:5-15.

The fifth name is the Day of Preparation for "fasika" (ፋሲካ), which means to cross over, or traverse. This name is taken from the event where God sent his angel to rescue the Israelites from slavery in Egypt, and they crossed over the Red Sea. On this day, the Savior became the beloved sacrifice and shed His blood for us and has taken us out of slavery from the devil and offered us to live in communion with Him. This is recorded in Matt. 26:17-19, March 14:1-16, and Luke 22:6-13.

The sixth name is associated with one of the twelve disciples, Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Jesus for 30 pieces of silver. This event is recorded in Matthew 26:49 and Mark 14:44.

According to Aba Giorgis Zegasca, Christ started His suffering at one o'clock on Thursday night when he washed the feet of His disciples. At the second hour of the night, He blessed the bread and the cup, saying, "This is my flesh, this is my blood, eat it." From the third to the fifth hour of the night, He withdrew and prayed until He bled. When He returned to His disciples, He found them sleeping, and He urged them to pray so they would not fall into temptation.

In the sixth hour of the night, Judas came with the chief priests, Pharisees, and others to arrest Jesus. Christ told His disciples to leave with Him, but Judas kissed Him, betraying Him. They arrested Him and took Him to the elders and chief priests, and Peter followed.

They surrounded Him and took him to the elders and chief priests and Peter was following him from afar. He entered from one of the walls and sat down to see the end of the matter. The Jews brought two false witnesses against Christ. They accused him of saying, ""Destroy this temple and I will rebuild it on the third day." The high priest stood up and said, "Are you going to say nothing? What is it these men testify against you." But our Lord didn't answer him anything. The high priest said, "are you then the Son of God?." Our Lord said, "You rightly say that I am." Then the high priest got angry and tore his clothes. And they struck his head with an iron rod. This was the beginning of the torment of Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:978 | date:2023-04-13T22:43:57 ---
👉🏾 Advice difficulties in #marriage

Question: I can't get my husband to go to church and even if he does, he wants to leave early. I have boys, what should I do?

✍️Answer: - Dear member, it would have been helpful if you listed the reasons why your husband does not go to church. A Habit is valuable when used for good. An Orthodox Christian who is accustomed to praying will not eat without praying, as their conscience will not allow it. Similarly, a Christian who is used to attending church will continue to do so, as it sanctifies them. Let us build good habits that will serve our spiritual life. 

The Church is the house of salvation. A believer who is separate from the Church is like a fish out of the sea, which has no chance of survival. An Orthodox believer cannot remain in Christ if separated from the Church. The souls of living believers, those who have completed their struggle and are in heaven such as Saint George and Saint Arsema, and the holy angels, are all united by God in the Church. 

Therefore, when we go to church, we must believe that we are going to the Holy Virgin Mary, Saint Gabriel, Saint Michael, and to God Himself. King David understood this when he said in Psalm 122:1, "I rejoiced with those who said to me, 'Let us go to the house of the Lord.'"

Secondly, the Church is not just a building but the body of believers. A Christian can be the abode of Christ when they are united with the fellowship of believers, without being separated from the Church. As Jesus said in John 15:5, "I am the vine; you are the branches. If you remain in me and I in you, you will bear much fruit; apart from me you can do nothing." Just as a branch cannot bear fruit unless it remains in the vine, a Christian cannot bear fruit unless they remain in Christ.

The third definition of the Church is the gathering of the faithful to praise God together, to listen to the Gospel, and to receive the sacraments. The holy place where these things happen is called the Church. Therefore, attending church is our Orthodox duty.

Just as we cannot live without food or shelter, the Church is our home. If we do not love the Church during our lives, we will be buried in it after death. If your husband understands and believed this, there is no reason why he would resist a church life. 

As for the question of how to raise our children, we can learn from the experience of Moses' mother. The Israelites fled from Egypt, a place where they did not know God and suffered greatly. When Moses was born, his mother placed him in the river, where Pharaoh's daughter found him and raised him. Moses' sister connected him with his mother, who raised him and taught him the right faith.

Moses chose heavenly glory over earthly rewards, and as a result, God spoke to him and used him to save Israel from the Egypt. Therefore, we should follow the example of Moses' mother and teach our children about the divinity of God, reminding them that all good things come from God.

If we raise our children in this way, it is possible to create children who say, "I want to be like Saint Kirk, like Moses, like Elias. We do not worship idols, we do not eat food offered to idols, and we deny the gods of others, for our God is the true God." It is good to teach them the word of God from a very early age. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:979 | date:2023-04-13T22:49:43 ---


--- id:980 | date:2023-04-13T22:49:43 ---


--- id:981 | date:2023-04-13T22:49:43 ---


--- id:982 | date:2023-04-13T22:51:09 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Good #Friday 

"Why The Cross?"

But if any honest Christian wants to know why He suffered death on the cross and not in some other way, we answer thus: in no other way was it expedient for us, indeed the Lord offered for our sakes the one death that was supremely good.

He had come to bear the curse that lay on us; and how could He "become a curse," [Gal. 3:13] otherwise than by accepting the accursed death? And that death is the cross, for it is written, "Cursed is he that hangs on a tree." [Gal. 3:13]

Again, the Lord’s death is the ransom of all, and by His death "the middle wall of partition" [Eph. 2:14] is broken down, and the calling of the nations is comes about. How could He have called us to Him, if He had not been crucified? For it is only on the cross that a man dies with His arms outstretched.

Here again, we see the fitness of His death and of those outstretched arms: it was that He might draw His ancient people with the one and the Gentiles with the other, and join both together in Himself.

Even so, He foretold the manner of His redeeming death. "And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto Myself." [John 12:32] Again the air is the sphere of the devil, the enemy of our race, who having fallen from heaven, endeavors with the other evil spirits who shared in his disobedience both to keep souls from the truth and to hinder the progress of those who are trying to follow it.

The Apostle refers to this when he says: "According to the prince of the power of the air, of the spirit that now works in the sons of disobedience." [Eph. 2:2] But the Lord came to overthrow the devil, to purify the air and to prepare "a way" for us up to heaven, as the apostle says, "through the veil, that is to say, His flesh." [Heb. 10:20].

This had to be done through death, and by what other kind of death could it be done, than by a death in the air, that is, on the cross? Here again, you see how right and natural it was that the Lord should suffer for us; for being thus "lifted up," He cleansed the air from all the evil influences of the enemy.

"I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven;" [Luke 10:18] He says; and thus He re-opened the road to heaven, saying again, "Lift up your gates, O you princes, and be lifted up, you everlasting doors." [Psalm 24:7] For it was not the Word Himself Who needed an opening of the gates, He being Lord of all, nor was any of His works closed to their Maker. No, it was we that needed it, we whom He Himself carried up in His own body–that body which He first offered to death on behalf of all, and then made through it a path to heaven.

Paul knew of [Him when] he said to the Corinthians, "I determined not to know anything among yon save Jesus Christ and Him crucified." Wherefore, formerly [the disciples] proclaimed Jesus as the doer of certain things, and the teacher of certain things; but now when Peter confesses that He was the Christ, the Son of the living God, as He did not wish it to be proclaimed already that He was the Christ, in order that He might be proclaimed at a more suitable time, and that as crucified, He commands His disciples that they should tell no man that He was the Christ. And that this was His meaning, when He forbade proclamation to be made that He was the Christ, is in a measure established by the words, "From that time began Jesus to show unto His disciples how that He must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders," and what is annexed; for then, at the fitting time, He proclaims, so to speak, to the disciples who knew that Jesus was Christ, the Son of the living God, the Fr. having revealed it to them, that instead of believing in Jesus Christ who had been crucified, they were to believe in Jesus Christ who was about to be crucified.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:983 | date:2023-04-13T22:52:03 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

But also, instead of believing in Christ Jesus and Him risen from the dead, He teaches them to believe in Christ Jesus and Him about to be risen from the dead. But since "having put off from Himself the principalities and the powers, He made a show of them openly, triumphing over in the cross," if any one is ashamed of the cross of Christ, he is ashamed of the dispensation on account of which these powers were triumphed over; and it is fitting that he, who both believes and knows these things, should glory in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which, when Christ was crucified, the principalities–among which, I think, was also the prince of this world–were made a show of and triumphed over before the believing world. Wherefore, when His suffering was at hand he said, "Now the prince of this world has been judged," and, "Now shall the prince of this world be cast out," and, "I, if I be lifted from the earth, will draw all men unto Myself; " as he no longer had sufficient power to prevent those going to Jesus who were being drawn by Him.

Source ፦ Coptic Orthodox Diocese of LA.  

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:988 | date:2023-04-14T22:23:04 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 What does 'k’edami si’ure' mean?

The term k’edami si’ure refers to Holy Saturday, the day between Good Friday and Easter Sunday. It is called k’edami si’uri because fasting from grain and water is not allowed on the Sabbath, but on this day, the Lord was in the grave, and the apostles fasted, saying that they would not eat or drink until they saw the resurrection.

It is also known as 'Lemlem Saturday' because k’ēt’ēma is blessed and distributed on this day. This has a symbolic and mystical meaning. Symbolically, in order to prove that the water that rained in Noah's time has dried up, Noah sent a dove out of the window. The first time, she was silent, but the second time she returned with k’ēt’ēma in her mouth, indicating that the water of the flood had dried up. This signifies that the water of sin has also dried up. (Genesis 8:6-11)

The mystical meaning of the dove is associated with our Lady, the Virgin Mary, as she is seen holding a green leaf in her mouth, indicating that the virgin conceived and gave birth to God as a virgin. The dove also signifies that Christ, who was born from her, destroyed death through his Crusifiction, saving us from slavery to the devil. 

It is also called Holy Saturday because Gos, who is Holy, rested from all his work on this day after creating all creatures. On this day, he destroyed Sheol with his soul, and left it empty. This day is different from other days because it is the day on which we inherited eternal peace for our souls. 

Ceremonies performed in the church on this day include:

Reading of the songs of Solomon because there is hope for resurrection. Before reaching other days, prayers of incense and prayer of absolution are offered, Gebre Salame (He made peace with the cross) is sung because he saved the souls in hell and gave rest (peace) to mankind after he was crucified on the cross. The cross was not a symbol of peace before the Lord was crucified on the cross, but later it became a symbol of peace.

Day of fasting (አክፍሎት): we are called to fast Saturday all day until Litergy ends of Sunday so we can participate in the blessings of the Apostles who fasted until they see Him reserected. When the Lord was teaching, the Pharisees and John's disciples fasted. They asked him why his disciples were not fasting, and he replied that the bridegroom should not fast with them because of the vows, but the time will come when the bridegroom will take them from them.
In addition, sharing is emphasized on this day. If the priests bring the blessings of the resurrection to them, they will share it with the poor.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:991 | date:2023-04-16T22:41:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #resurrection of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ 

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox teachings that we convey on John's Repentance page; As mentioned in the title above, it is a short lesson about Easter and the reserection. We entrust you to read it and participate in the blessings of this feast. 

It is undoubtedly, the conviction of the Orthodox the world over, but also of all Christians, that fear of death was vanquished: “Christ is risen from the dead, trampling down death by death, and to those in the tombs, He has granted life,” triumphantly exclaims one of the oldest, together with the Phos hilaron (Gladdening light), hymns of the Christian Church.

However, the true fact of death, the result of man’s fall, and of his free choice to disobey God and thus break communion with Him, was not abolished. Death, as human being’s ultimate enemy, “will be the last enemy to be destroyed” in the words of Apostle Paul (1 Corinthians 15:26). By means of their faith in the Resurrection of the Son and Word of God, the faithful will be able to live true life, “in abundance of life” according to John the Evangelist: (I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly, John 10:10). This is the life, rid of the catalytic influence of the devil, that God gave to humanity by the Resurrection of Christ, who “did trample down death and did abolish the devil” (the correct wording of the euchologion in the funeral service).

By His death Christ did abolish the devil that until then had the power of death, thus liberating humanity that used to be enslaved by their fear of death. In the words of the author of the epistle to the Hebrews: “That through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil; And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage (Hebrews 2: 14-15. See also “putting an end to the agony of death…because you will not abandon my soul to Hades“ in the book of the Acts of the Apostles 2:24 and 27).

This conviction was preserved unchanged in the century long tradition of the Eastern Orthodox Church, where, Easter, that is the Resurrection, is re-enacted not only every Sunday, especially during the Orthros, but it is also celebrated every year with even more joyfulness than in the Western world, where they celebrate more the Birth of our Saviour. There are other differences between the Western and Eastern Christianity, in the theology and in the conscience of the faithful, as for instance the “eschatological”—and therefore doxological—dimension of the Christian self-awareness, in contrast with the “historical”—and therefore more missionary—practice of our brothers in the Western world. The resurrection however, remains the element that represents more than any other the Orthodox Christian self-awareness, while in the Western world, until very recently, Crucifixion was the predominant signifier.

The first theologian to have developed and established the determining importance of the Resurrection of Christ was St. Paul, the great Apostle to the nations. In his first, and, according to many, oldest written text, the first epistle to the Thessalonians, Paul refers, for the first time, to the significance of the Resurrection for the future of the Christians: “For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep” (4:14). In other words, faith in the resurrection of Christ, leads to the partaking of the faithful to the eschatological Kingdom of God, a state by far more glorious than even that of Paradise. For this reason, and after quoting an apocalyptic text, using a language that all his readers would be able to understand, he concludes his argumentation by the phrase “and so we will be with the Lord for ever” (4:17).

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:992 | date:2023-04-16T22:45:12 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

Some years later addressing the community of Corinth, Paul further developed his teaching on the subject of the resurrection of the dead, especially in chapter 15 of his first epistle to the Corinthians that was going to act as a catalyst in determining the Christian faith. In it we find the well-known quote of the apostle: “If Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless”(15:17). For Paul, the Resurrection of Christ was not an isolated past event, a wonderful intervention of God in the created world that lifted at once fear of death and its domination. It was rather the beginning of humanity’s salvation, which will be completed at the “eschaton.”

In this chapter of his epistle, the apostle invokes the sermon of the first church about the cross, the resurrection and the apparitions of the risen Christ, as this message was delivered by eye witnesses, men and women apostles of Christ, and was recorded in the early Christian sources (15:3ff). One of the basic reasons for the extensive development, in this epistle, of the Christian teachings on Resurrection, was the conviction of certain Christians in Corinth, that there was no resurrection of the dead (“some among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead,” 15:12). This conviction maybe due to a misinterpretation of many traditions of early Christian, New Testament, but also extra biblical Christian sources (such as the Q source, the most ancient source of the Synoptic Gospel tradition, the Epistle of James, St. Thomas Apocryphal Gospel etc.), that put at the heart of their teachings not the Cross and Resurrection of Christ, but the eschatological, moral and prophetic teachings of the Historical Christ.

The apostle makes it clear that the resurrection of Christ ensures the resurrection of the dead. To illustrate his point, he uses two theological motifs. First of all, the Adam–Christ, first man-second man: “For since by a man came death, by a man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive” (15:21-22). The second motif he uses is the psychic–pneumatic body that is the natural, earthy body of this life and the heavenly body after death. He describes how the new body will replace the old one, at the resurrection of the dead: “So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown a perishable body, it is raised an imperishable body; it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body” (15:42-44).

Finally, he describes the future resurrection of the dead, using, as he did in 1 Thessalonians, the widely known apocalyptic themes of the Old Testament and of the intertestmental sources, the last trumpet that will sound. This is the real “mystery” of immortality in Christ: “Behold, I tell you a mystery; we will not all sleep, but we will all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet;
for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed. For this perishable must put on the imperishable, and this mortal must put on immortality” (15:51-53). And he concludes, triumphantly exclaiming, in the way that the orthodox celebrate Christ’s Resurrection: “O Death, where is your victory? O Death where is your sting?” (15:55).

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:993 | date:2023-04-16T22:47:01 ---
(Continued) 👇

The Resurrection of Christ, therefore, as “The Feast of Feasts” and “The Festival of Festivals,” is the fundamental truth and the ultimate event of Christian faith. It is the most decisive act of the liberation of humanity from the fear of death and devil’s power. It is the beginning of the new creation and the very assurance for the salvation of human beings affirmed by the certainty of the heavenly resurrection of the dead, which is a concept widely different from that of the Greek philosophical theory on immortality of the soul. It is precisely for this reason that we read in the later New Testament sources that Christ during the burial of his earthy body and his Resurrection “He also went and preached to the spirits that were in prison”  (1 Peter 3:19).

This is the reason that the Byzantine painting tradition represents the fact of the Resurrection by the “Descent to Hades.” The descent to hades is also hinted at in another passage of this letter: “For this is why the gospel was preached even to the dead,” 4:6, and in the Acts of the Apostles (2:24. 27-31). Many researchers consider that the principal literary source is the apocryphal Gospel of Nicodemus, where we find the dialogue between hades and the devil.

The Resurrection, in other words, is not merely a fact of paramount historical importance, but it overarches history giving it a new sense, orientating it towards a new world, a new life, completely different from the conventional life of decay, strife and death.

Source፦ Publicorthodoxy.org

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:995 | date:2023-04-17T21:40:01 ---


--- id:996 | date:2023-04-17T21:40:01 ---


--- id:997 | date:2023-04-17T21:40:11 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first Monday of #Easter 

"Christ has risen from the dead, 
with great power and authority, 
he has seized Satan, 
and freed Adam, 
Peace, 
from now on, 
let it be,
joy and peace!."

The first Monday of Easter is known as 'ma‘idot', which means to pass through, just like Passover in Hebrew. In Orthodox teachings, the words ma‘idot, Fasika, and Pasca all refer to crossing.

The significance of ma‘idot can be understood in three ways. Firstly, after over 430 years of slavery in Egypt, God heard the cries of the oppressed Israelites and commanded Moses to have each family kill a year-old lamb without blemish and spread its blood on their doorposts. This day became known as Easter, as the angel of death passed over the houses where the lamb's blood was present, sparing their firstborns. This event represents the passing from slavery to freedom.

Secondly, when the Israelites finally left Egypt, God drowned Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea, while the Israelites passed through it on dry land. This marked their passage from slavery to freedom and their journey towards the promised land of Canaan, flowing with honey and milk.

Lastly, in the New Testament, Christ's death and resurrection allowed souls to pass from hell to heaven. Through the blood of the Lamb, Christ, those who were once enslaved by sin were able to pass from death to life and from condemnation to repentance. This is our ultimate Passover, as Christ loved us and washed us from our sins with his blood.

Therefore, ma‘idot is a day to commemorate Christ's death and resurrection, which brought salvation to the world and allowed souls to pass from hell to heaven. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:999 | date:2023-04-18T22:01:24 ---


--- id:1000 | date:2023-04-18T22:01:24 ---


--- id:1001 | date:2023-04-18T22:01:24 ---


--- id:1002 | date:2023-04-18T22:01:30 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first #Tuesday of #Easter

The First Tuesday of Easter is called #Thomas. Why is that? 

The first Tuesday of Easter is called Thomas because on Sunday night, after the Lord's resurrection, He appeared to the apostles in a closed house, but the apostle St. Thomas was not present. When the other apostles informed him about the resurrection of the Lord, St. Thomas said, "I will not believe unless I see the nail marks in His hands and put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into His side." The Lord said to him, "Put your finger here; see my hands. Reach out your hand and put it into my side. Stop doubting and believe." Then Thomas declared, "My Lord and my God!" Jesus said to him, "Because you have seen me, you have believed; blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed." This event is recorded in John 20:27-29. On this day, St. Thomas acknowledged the Lord's love and believed in the resurrection, so the Orthodox Church commemorates this day as Thomas.

The reason why our Savior allowed Thomas to touch His side and showed the crucified hands and feet to the holy apostles was to prove that He had truly risen from the dead, and that He was not a ghost or a mere apparition. The Lord showed His wounds to Thomas to convince him of the reality of His resurrection. John wrote, "We have seen it and testify to it" (John 20:24-31). When Mary Magdalene encountered the risen Lord on Easter morning, He told her not to touch Him, to teach us that women are not allowed to touch His Holy blood and precious blood, meaning that women cannot be priests because only priests can touch His Holy flesh. This is the commentary from our Church scholars. 

The Spiritual Development of St. Thomas: When St. Thomas was called by the Lord, he was a follower of the Sadducees, who did not believe in the resurrection of the dead. However, after encountering the risen Lord and receiving the Holy Spirit at Pentecost, St. Thomas became a bold witness of the resurrection and preached the Gospel in Persia and India, as recorded in church history.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1003 | date:2023-04-20T09:30:46 ---


--- id:1004 | date:2023-04-20T09:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first #Wednesday of #Pascha 

In Orthodox Christianity, the fourth day after the resurrection of Jesus Christ is known as "Lazarus" Wednesday.

It is called "Lazarus" Wednesday to commemorate the resurrection of Lazarus, who was raised from the dead by Jesus Christ four days after his burial. Lazarus means "God has helped us," and there are three Lazaruses mentioned in the Bible.

The first is Aaron's grandson in Exodus 6:23, the second is the poor man in a parable told by Jesus in Luke 16:20, and the third is Lazarus, the brother of Martha and Mary, whom Jesus raised from the dead as recounted in John 11:38.

On this day, the Orthodox Church teaches and remembers the miracle of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead on the fourth day. When Lazarus became sick, his sisters sent word to Jesus, "Lord, the one you love is sick." Jesus replied, "This sickness will not end in death. No, it is for God's glory so that God's Son may be glorified through it" (John 11:3-4).

When Jesus arrived in Bethany, Lazarus had already been dead for four days. Martha greeted Jesus and said, "Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died" (John 11:21). But Jesus told her, "I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will live, even though they die; and whoever lives by believing in me will never die" (John 11:25-26).

Therefore, on the fourth day after Easter, we celebrate the resurrection of Lazarus and reflect on the promise of eternal life through faith in Jesus Christ. As the Apostle Paul wrote, "But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man. For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive" (1 Corinthians 15:20-22).

We believe that true life is found in living according to God's commandments and having a pure conscience. Our deeds, whether good or bad, have an impact on our soul, and we must strive to do what is right and avoid sin. May the resurrection of Lazarus remind us of the hope we have in Jesus Christ and inspire us to live a life pleasing to God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1005 | date:2023-04-20T09:36:01 ---


--- id:1006 | date:2023-04-20T09:37:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first #Thursday of #Pascha

The fifth Thursday of Resurrection is known as "Adam Thursday". Our father Adam, the first man, and the mother of us all, Eve, were filled with happiness and joy in the Garden of Eden until they were expelled due to their disobedience to God's commands. They repented of their sins and begged for forgiveness. God made a promise to Adam that after five and a half days, He would be born from his grandson and be crucified to save mankind by His death. This day is remembered as the memorial of Adam. (Mark 4:24-28)

According to the Orthodox Church's teachings, a thousand years are like one day in God's eyes, which means that 5500 years is like five and a half days. As David said in his psalm, "A thousand years have passed before you, she is as diligent as yesterday and as night" (Ps 89:4). Saint Peter also taught that "with the Lord, one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like one day" (2 Pet 3:8).

Therefore, we remember and commemorate Adam's promise and the fulfillment of this Holy mystery on this day. The main reason why Christ became a man is because of Adam and our mother Eve's prayer and repentance.

Friday is the day Adam and Eve came out of Hell, but we celebrate Adam Thursday because it is the day when the promise made to Adam was fulfilled. Friday is also the day when the whole world was saved because of the crucifixion of Christ. Counting from Sunday to Thursday, it is five days, which means that at the end of five and a half days (5500), God's promise to Adam was fulfilled.

Adam, the first man, and the father of all mankind, was created on the sixth day, and all the descendants of mankind were derived from him. We remember that after living in mourning for 5500 years, the promise made to Adam has been fulfilled.

Adam Thursday commemorates the liberation of Adam from his children by Christ's death and resurrection. After spending seven years in the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve were expelled because they disobeyed God's commands and accepted the advice of the enemy. They lost the joy they enjoyed in paradise and were forced to live in a land of thorns and thistles. Adam's grief was strong, but he did not complain about the pleasure he was doing in heaven. Instead, he said, "My Lord, I have broken the commandment and lost my place in heaven."

As Orthodox people, we have also broken God's commandments, transgressed from the law, and sinned, but we can repent and be saved. St. Paul teaches us, "I have heard you in the favored hour, and I have helped you in the day of salvation. Behold, the favored hour is now. And the day of salvation is today" (2 Cor. 6:2).

Lastly, it is important to remember that Sunday is the first day of the week, and Monday is the second day of the week.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1008 | date:2023-04-20T21:46:22 ---


--- id:1009 | date:2023-04-20T21:46:22 ---


--- id:1010 | date:2023-04-20T21:46:32 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first #Friday of #Pascha

The sixth day of Easter is known as Good Friday.

The Holy Church was founded and redeemed by the blood of Christ because it is the one in which God incarnated and was tested.

As the Church was founded by the blood of Christ, this day is given great importance as a memorial to the Church. According to the teachings of the Church, the Holy Angels received Christ's blood in a cup of light on the day of His Resurrection and sprinkled it around the world. This is why the Church was built.

Another name for this Friday is the Ascension of Sheol. On this day, when souls came out of Sheol after 5500 centuries, our Lord broke His holy body on the cross and shed His precious blood, setting them free and blessing them with paradise. This day is named as the Ascension from Hell and is remembered on Friday, the sixth day after our Lord rose.

May we repent, eat His flesh, drink His blood, and become heirs of the Kingdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1013 | date:2023-04-22T10:32:51 ---


--- id:1014 | date:2023-04-22T10:32:53 ---
👉🏾 About the first #Saturday of #Pasha 

The seventh day of Easter is known as the Saturday of Holy #Women.

On this day, the thirty-six holy women from one hundred and twenty families are remembered, who served our Lord with their money and energy during his time in earth. They marched to the tomb in the dark with perfumes and flowers, and this day is dedicated as a memorial to the holy women who were alongside Christ until the last moment of his lives and even after. (Matthew 28:1-18, Luke 23:27, Matthew 25:1-11).

Our Savior, Jesus Christ, also gave honor to women in his sacrifice, and many women followed him to serve him with their money and energy (Luke 8:2-3).

Even though the first women, Eve, was the reason for our expulsion from Paradise, our Lady, the Holy Virgin Mary, brought us back to our inheritance. Respecting women is not a choice but a duty, for we have gained what we lost because of women.

In the Old Testament era, women did not have the right to inheritance, and were not counted in geneology. This was because of Eve, who was considered to be the reason why we lost our heavenly inheritance, a place as glorious as Paradise. Thus, it was said that women did not deserve an inheritance. But because of our Lady, the heavenly inheritance has been restored for us and we got even more, so it is not a choice but a duty to respect women.

If the gates of heaven were closed to us because of the first women, Eve, the gates of heaven have been opened to us again because of another Eve, the Virgin Mary. In his praise, St. Ephraim said, "The gate of heaven was closed because of Eve, but it was opened again by the Virgin Mary, and this is why it was revealed that we were born to eat from the fruit of life." Respecting women is not a choice but a duty.

Our Lord chose a women who had five husbands to testify to the people of Samaria that he had sent the holy apostles to be his witnesses (John 4:18).

In the feast of Paracletus, thirty-six women from the one hundred and twenty families were women. The fact that the story of Roman women who were praised for their good work was revealed in 2 John 1 indicates the high role and honor of women in Christianity.

Moreover, to show the compassion of women, the Trinity is called the Holy Trinity in the female article. (In Amahric and Ge'ez) This means that just as a woman should not be doubted by the child she has given birth to, neither should the Trinity be doubted by their creation. Just as a woman never forgets her child, neither will the Trinity forget us. Just like a women is compassionate and caring towards her children, the Trinity is also  compassionate and caring towards their creatures.

We respect women, we elevate them because we know the role they have in society. We acknowledge that they gave birth to martyrs, virgins, monks, patriarchs, bishops, archbishops, priests, deacons, kings, and monks.

For this reason, the Holy Church commemorates the holy women who spent their lives as martyrs and saints in different eras by giving them the title of sainthood equal to men, carving tablets, preparing essays expressing their gratitude, and celebrating their feasts according to the canon.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1018 | date:2023-04-22T22:29:38 ---


--- id:1019 | date:2023-04-22T22:29:41 ---


--- id:1020 | date:2023-04-22T22:29:45 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the first #Sunday of #Pascha 

This is the day that our Lord entered in a closed house, where the holy apostles were. He was among them and said "Peace be with you all" and explained the resurrection to them, but the apostle Thomas was not present. Later, when Thomas came, the holy apostles happily told him that the resurrection of our Lord had been revealed to them. "Am I going to teach and testify saying 'I heard' while you teach and testify saying you saw? No, if I don't see it, I won't believe it." Rather, He who knows the reason for the hearts of those whom He has chosen, the God of infinite goodness, the Savior of the world, just like He appeared to the other apostles, he entered without opening the door and stood among them, saying, "Peace be with you all." And he said to Thomas, "Believe, but do not doubt; behold, my hands and feet are nailed, and my pierced side." He saw our Lord and put his hands on his body to see that he was not a spirit and understood his divinity as he desired, he then believed and said "My Lord and my God."

When our Lord Jesus Christ appeared to the ten apostles for the first time, the apostle Thomas was not there. We celebrate this day to commemorate his second appearance to the apostles in the same place where St. Thomas was so that he can see him this time. 

The Lord rose up to remove Thomas's doubt. When Thomas touched his side, which was pierced by a spear, his hand looked like it entered into a sea of fire and he cried out, "My Lord, my God." He healed him by saying, "You see and believe, but blessed are those who believe without seeing." Joh 20:29 This hand that touched his side is still alive today in the land of India with the Malankara Orthodox Church. It is said that they use this hand to choose bishop as she points to the one who is suitable for this appointment. 

Therefore, this is the day when the mystery of resurrection was revealed to the apostles for the second time and our Church celebrated it in a special way.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1023 | date:2023-04-23T23:13:13 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #truth and #religion

Question፦ Selam 👋. 

When searching for truth, does that mean I have to separate myself from my Orthodoxy to search for truth? I don't know how to reconcile the search for truth with that of believing in the sacraments and dogmas of the Church (Considering I take Holy Communion and Confession). How can I accept the Church's teachings but raise questions wondering whether or not the Church I am in is still true? The only thing I can come up with is that my belief in the Church teachings is based off of a child-like faith, similar to blind faith, and seeking truth not on a neutral basis, disconnected from the Church, but seeking it with the help of the Church and God (like parents) and leave the future as a mystery of what the result of my investigation will be.

Answer፦ It is important to understand that the Orthodox Church is founded on the teachings of Jesus Christ and the Holy Scriptures. The Holy Communion, for example, is a sacrament of the Holy Body and Precious Blood of Christ, and it is central to our faith. When we partake in this sacrament, we are reminded of the sacrifice that Christ made for us and our responsibility to live our lives in accordance with His teachings.

Similarly, the other ceremonies performed in the church, such as baptism and confession, are also important aspects of our faith. Through baptism, we are born again and become members of the body of Christ, while confession allows us to seek forgiveness for our sins and strive towards spiritual purity.

It is natural to have doubts and questions about our faith, but it is important to seek answers within the framework of the teachings of the Orthodox Church. As believers, we are encouraged to deepen our understanding of the Holy Scriptures and the teachings of our church through prayer, study, and participation in church activities.

Ultimately, our faith is a personal journey that requires a sincere commitment to seeking the truth and living a life that is pleasing to God. We must trust in the guidance of the Holy Spirit and the wisdom of our church leaders as we strive to deepen our understanding of our faith and live our lives in accordance with its teachings.

It is important to approach our faith with an open heart and mind, seeking to deepen our understanding of its teachings and embracing its sacraments as essential to our spiritual growth. We must trust in the guidance of the Holy Spirit and the teachings of our church leaders as we seek to live a life that is pleasing to God.

Humans have both a physical and mental nature. Our minds often focus on mundane and earthly things, leading us to make mistakes. But when we recognize our errors and seek truth, we can overcome temptation and lack of understanding. Those who are unable to grasp truth are like Balaam who was sitting in his donkey when the angel of God stood with a sword. The donkey saw the angel but not Balaam. Although humans are the ones that have been given the understanding of God, our sins break our bondage with God and we lose this grace that is needed to understand God and experience God. This is another tragic story where we see how man can be so separated from the understanding of the heavenly things. 

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1024 | date:2023-04-23T23:13:16 ---
(Continued) 👆

Only a few are granted the grace to see truth, those who seek with a sincere heart and have faith. 

Thinking that we will find a better truth, we create our own man-made beliefs, which are unnecessary and burdensome. We see the world through habit, as if it has no shepherd, leaving us adrift like a sip without an owner. 

Our questioner may have much understanding and reading in religion and talked to many people in the past. This is good. We do not pressure people to doubt themselves by asking why they said something. What matters is that we hold onto truth and believe in it as the foundation of our faith. Even if liars try to cover up the truth, nothing will stop it from being true.

In search of truth, we do not list what is said in the Bible to answer the question but Instead, we want to understand our questioner's thoughts and have a conversation in the future, whether by phone or in writing. God is our helper and owner of our ideas, and we wish to explain the reality we sincerely believe. But ultimately, it is up to one's conscience to understand the truth.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1025 | date:2023-04-24T22:17:00 ---


--- id:1026 | date:2023-04-24T22:17:00 ---


--- id:1027 | date:2023-04-24T22:17:41 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Mystery of the #Holy #Eucharist (#Communion)

What is the Holy Communion? 
What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion? 
Why is the sacrament called a mystery? 
Who is worthy of the Holy Communion? 
What preparation do we do before and after receiving the Holy Communion?

The sacrament of Holy Communion is one of the seven sacraments of the Orthodox Church. The term "Qurban" is an Arabic word meaning "blessing," "gift of money, knowledge, labor and time." In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.

In the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile Himself with mankind. This offering is Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. Thus, the sacrament means the perfect Body and Blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior.

It was Jesus Christ who founded the sacrament of Holy Communion on the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. Only his twelve disciples were with him when he established this great sacrement and mystery. He did not reveal it to all the people who were following him like he did with other sacrements. This is why the Holy Church shroudes it in veil and honor as she offers it to the faithful. 

The Holy Communion is called a mystery because of the transformation of bread into the flesh of God and wine into the blood of God, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. The priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat and prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread and wine by saying, "Aækote Barëkë Wokëdësë," the authority of the priest, the word of God, and the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread and wine into the flesh and blood of God, making it a mystery that is hidden from the unbeliever.

Before receiving the Holy Communion, one must believe without doubt in the change of the bread and wine into the flesh and blood of God, which is necessary for the healing of the stain and wound of sin and the source of eternal life. One must also repent from past sins, confess, return, and guard against future sins. There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion, and one should not stay away from the Holy Communion until the end of one's life.

After receiving the Holy Communion, one should take precautions, such as refraining from eating or drinking for a certain period, and contemplating on the spiritual benefit received from the sacrament. The Holy Communion is a great mystery and is the sacrament that is central to the Orthodox Church's teachings.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1028 | date:2023-04-24T22:23:07 ---
(Continued) 👆

If those who receive the sacrament are married, they should abstain from meat for three days before receiving communion. This is not because sexual relationship is a sin or unclean but because it is a work of the flesh. We do this out of reverence for the Eucharist. 

One should confesses a known sin and say, "Forgive me for any unknown sins," and cleanse their heart of revenge and keep their body away from wrongdoing.

In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food or water, and wait until the food is removed from the stomach.
If a person has a nocturnal emission the night of, they should not receive communion on that day.

On the eve, one should take a bath and prepare clean clothes.

It is necessary to get to church before the services start. A person who comes in the middle of the Liturgy and has not properly consecrated themselves should not receive communion.

A woman should not receive communion during her menstrual period for up to seven days. Afterward, she should wash herself and receive communion. As she gets close to giving birth, she should not receive communion until the child is born and christened. She should wait until she has gains back her energy before she continues taking part of the Eucharist. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1034 | date:2023-04-25T22:10:44 ---


--- id:1035 | date:2023-04-25T22:12:45 ---
👉🏾 About how our Lord and Savior #Jesus #Christ defeated the devil. 

"To destroy the works of the devil, the Son of God has been revealed" (1 John 3:8).

Dear children of God, we appreciate you very much when we see that you are following the teachings and spiritual advice that we always convey on John's Repentance page. As God has entrusted us to serve we entrust you to read and friends and family. 

Something new and wonderful happened in earth 5500 years after creation. It was a miracle that has never happened before, an abstract secret that is impossible for a creature but possible for a creator: the secret of Christ's birth from his mother, the Holy Virgin Mary, who gave Him flesh and became a man. Even though it was prophesied that He would come down from heaven and be born of Mary, it was a marvel that He was born from her body, her soul, and her flesh.

Evidence:

The apostle St. Paul wrote, "In the past God spoke to our ancestors through the prophets at many times and in various ways, but in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom also he made the universe" (Hebrews 1:1-2).

The apostle St. Paul said, "When the end of the age came, God sent his Son, born of a woman, born under the law" (Galatians 4:4).

Christ's main purpose and reason for coming to earth in the flesh was to live forever in glory as the first physical word of His character. He experienced hunger, thirst, weariness, death, illness, and everything that human beings go through. This was necessary to make Him compatible with Adam's nature (1 John 3:8) so that He could destroy the works of the devil.

What is the work of the devil? The devil's work is to commit sin. Betrayal, arrogance, and falsehood are some examples of sins that the devil committed.

1st/ Betrayal

The devil, who had the position of leadership in the world of angels, arose an evil desire and sought the authority of the Creator, denying the Creatorship of God, even denying himself, and sowing the weeds of betrayal. The devil, filled with the rebellion of apostasy in his evil mind, sowed the weeds of apostasy on the hearts of Adam's children. (Mathew 13:25) But Christ removed Adam and his children from the sin of apostasy that the devil brought into the world, destroyed the tares that the devil had sown in the wheat field, and removed them from the hearts of mankind. (Ezekiel 36:25-32)

"However, false prophets were also among the people, and they will be false teachers among you, and they will deny even the Lord who redeemed them, and many will follow them in their own ways, and the path of truth will be insulted by them." (2 Peter 1:1:2) 

"For certain individuals whose condemnation was written about long ago have secretly slipped in among you. They are ungodly people, who pervert the grace of our God into a license for immorality and deny Jesus Christ our only Sovereign and Lord." (Jude 1:4) 

"He says, 'They deny religion, they are numb, as if they are burning in their own conscience'" (1 Timothy 4:2) which describes the devil's work of treason and explains his evil deeds.

(Continued) 👇🏾

--- id:1036 | date:2023-04-25T22:12:57 ---
(Continues) 👆

2nd / Arrogance

Pride is a behavior that originated from the devil himself. It is a devilish trait (1 Timothy 3:6). The devil, motivated by his pride, caused a division among the angels. The prophet Isaiah speaks of this pride leading to failure: "How you have fallen from heaven, morning star, son of the dawn! You have been cast down to the earth" (Isaiah 14:12).

However, our Lord has humbled us and destroyed the pride that the devil raised in our hearts. He, being the Most High God, humbled Himself and lived a sinless human life. He washed the feet of His disciples, demonstrating the wisdom that overcomes pride, which is the work of the devil (John 13:4-17). In His teachings, He exhorted us to learn from His example of meekness and lowliness of heart, assuring us that we will find rest for our souls (Matthew 11:29).

3rd / Falsehood

Falsehood is also a trait that originated from the devil himself, and he is called the father of lies (John 8:44). His aim is to twist what is good and make it evil, what is sweet and make it bitter, and to pretend that lies are truth. He misled our first parents, Adam and Eve, with his lies (Genesis 3:4-5).

But the truth of our Lord Jesus Christ has shattered the false world that the devil created (John 14:16, 1 John 2:21, John 18:37).

4th/ Homicide

When Adam and his children were first created, they didn't know about death. However, the devil was envious of them, having lost his own paradise through pride and betrayal. He wanted to cause their downfall as well, so he taught Cain to kill Abel (Gen 4).

Murder began with Cain, and all the children of Adam have lived with the stain of bloodshed. However, Christ teaches us to lay down our lives for one another and to forgive those who do evil (Luke 23:34).

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1040 | date:2023-04-26T22:11:18 ---
👉🏾 About #marriage and the #Holy #Eucharist

Question፦ To begin, if a person is married, must they constantly attend Holy Communion with their spouse?  Because my mother really wants to partake in holy communion and has already confessed her sins when we went to Ethiopia and she did timket, but my father doesn't go to church and only follows church services from home, is it possible for my mother to take Kurban without my father or do they have to do it together because she really wants to partake in holy communion (they are married)?  

Answer፦ The question is regarding a husband and wife who are living together but are not united in their spiritual life. One of them wants to partake of Holy Communion but the other is not attending church regularly.

The first issue is that the penance fathers have not provided adequate guidance and discipline to the couple to help them walk together in their spiritual journey. This is a problem that affects many faithful believers and is a failure on the part of the penance fathers. They should show the right path and teach the way so that people can live by the teachings of the Church.  

Secondly, couples must start their marriage with a focus on their spiritual life rather than solely on material wealth and property. They should not be driven by materialistic desires, but rather by their faith. Even if they give tithes or attend church, it should not be out of obligation but rather out of love for God. It is important to seek God's kingdom and righteousness first, and all other things will be added.

Regarding the question of whether the wife can receive Holy Communion alone, the answer is no. As long as they are living together and sharing a bed, one cannot receive Holy Communion alone. If the man is not able to adjust his position and come back to the faith, and if they have exhausted all efforts to reconcile, the woman may choose to separate and receive Holy Communion alone. However, it is important to try to keep the couple together and give them advice so that they can be together until the end.

The couple should seek guidance from elders and penance fathers to avoid any unwanted issues in their relationship that may lead to separation. The father is not going to church because he lacks a Christian education but not because he hates salvation, so it is important to involve responsible fathers in this process so they can pull him into the church using the wisdom that has been given to them. 

In conclusion, it is important to prioritize one's spiritual life and seek guidance from penance fathers to walk together with one's spouse. Holy Communion entails unity in flesh and should only be received together as a couple. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1042 | date:2023-04-27T22:07:55 ---


--- id:1043 | date:2023-04-27T22:07:55 ---


--- id:1044 | date:2023-04-27T22:08:09 ---
👉🏾 About the type of #cross we should wear

Question፦ Hello, I was wondering if it's okay to wear other kinds of cross necklaces (gold, silverm etc) or does it have to be the type that is shaped in wood? If so, I was wondering what the meaning is. Thank you!

Answer፦ The cross is a special symbol for the Orthodox Church members and indicates our unity in faith. 

As our Lord, God, and Savior Jesus Christ said, "If anyone loves me, he will carry the cross and follow me." The cross represents the martyrdom of suffering in the Christian life, the spiritual activities we do, and the good deeds that we do voluntarily. It reminds us that there are many trials we must face.

Thirdly, the cross is our power, symbolizing the source of all life. It is the symbol from which we overcome all demons and rise to victory over all our subtle spiritual enemies.

Therefore, it is important to consider which type of cross wear. We know that the cross on which our Lord Jesus Christ was crucified was made of wood. The Ethiopian Orthodox Church, uses wood, bronze and gold and other metals to make a cross which is prepared according to our canon.

Although gold, silver, and bronze are valuable, it would be impossible to make crosses out of these minerals for everyone to use because they are too expensive. The grace given by God through the cross is not valued by money. The cross has a subtle grace and power from God that cannot be bought. Therefore, we should bind the cross to be a symbol of our religion, whatever it may be made from, so that we can be protected from the power of demons.

The bronze cross is similar to the altar tool used in the Old Testament sacrifices, while the silver and gold crosses are symbols of God's grace. The gold cross represents the purity, novelty and previousness of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. 

In summary, the Orthodox Church uses wooden, bronze, silver, and gold crosses in service. Each material has its own significance, and we can understand their meaning through comparison with the prophecy in Daniel chapter 2. The great image that King Nebuchadnezzar saw had a head of fine gold, chest and arms of silver, belly and loins of bronze, and thighs of iron.

Just as the stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the earth completely, the cross is a powerful symbol that reminds us of God's grace, protection, and victory over our enemies. We should therefore cherish and respect the cross as a manifestation of good things and as a protection against evil.

All of these elements have their own secrets of manifestation.

Nebuchadnezzar saw the vision because God intended to reveal something to him but he couldn't understand it. The prophet Daniel, a man of God, was able to interpret this mystery and reveal it. This was in contrast to the sorcerers and soothsayers who were far from God's help.

Thus, when God revealed the vision to Nebuchadnezzar, there was a wide commentary on what each element represented, such as gold, silver, clay, bronze, and iron. Since we are allowed to use them all for good, it means that we can use the cross made of gold, bronze, silver, and wood, among other materials.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1045 | date:2023-04-27T22:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

It's important to note that the use of any material in the Orthodox Church should be in accordance with the Church's teachings and traditions. Additionally, while the interpretation of Nebuchadnezzar's vision is open to discussion, it is ultimately God who reveals the meaning behind such mysteries.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1049 | date:2023-04-28T22:12:38 ---


--- id:1050 | date:2023-04-28T22:12:38 ---


--- id:1051 | date:2023-04-28T22:12:38 ---


--- id:1052 | date:2023-04-28T22:13:45 ---
👉🏾 About #Repentance 

Question፦ What preparation is needed for repentance? What do we say when we repent?? What should we do after we repent?

Answer፦ The concept of repentance in the Orthodox Church is a fundamental question that requires careful consideration. Before embarking on the process of repentance, one must first ask oneself why they wish to repent. The reasons for repentance must be thoroughly understood, including an awareness of one's sinful nature, the need for repentance, and what one has lost by sinning. Repentance is necessary because we are all sinners, and only those who are sick need to be healed, not the healthy.

Therefore, it is important to understand the meaning of sin before repentance. Sin signifies a loss, separation, and avoidance. We lose blessings, peace, help, love, and the ability to live with God. Sin also causes deprivation and separation from holy places, prayer, blessings, and all good things.

To illustrate this point, we can examine the example of the devil, who was not initially created as an evil being. He was created as the chief of the holy angels and was close to God. However, he attempted to use his creative talents for his own benefit and was consequently cast out from the presence of God. He lost his sanctity, just as Adam was separated from God and lost his holiness, peace, and blessings. Therefore, before repenting, one must understand the severity and essence of sin and repent to regain what was lost.

When we repent, the first step is to acknowledge that we are sinners. This involves listing all of our sins, from actions to thoughts, without concealing anything. It is crucial to recognize that hiding our sins is akin to being a secret friend of the evil spirit. On the other hand, confessing our sins is living with God. We must confess to both our repentant father and to God himself. It is vital to understand that the choice to live or die is ours.

Finally, we must have the willingness to repent. Living in sin is not living. It is essential to realize that it is not right and to repent of our sinful ways. It is not challenging to turn back when we understand that the path we are on is wrong. We must hate and abhor sin and understand that it is more poisonous than poison itself. Only then can we avoid it and genuinely repent.

Moreover, repentance is a vital process that requires understanding and willingness. By acknowledging our sins, we can regain what we have lost and live with God.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1053 | date:2023-04-28T22:14:10 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

To summarize, it is necessary to understand the meaning of sin, acknowledge that we are sinners, confess all sins without omitting any details, and realize that we are not only confessing to the priest but also to God. Additionally, when we repent, we should not make excuses, such as blaming Satan or others. We should accept responsibility for our actions and believe that God is merciful and forgiving.

In regards to how we should confess, we should write down our sins so we don't forget anything during confession. We should not sugarcoat our sins in anyway but rather say them as they are, admitting guilt and responsibility. We should confess our sins in detail and not make superficial statements like 'I lied'. What was the lie? Why did you lie? To whom did you lie? What are the causes and effects of the lie? What are you doing to make sure this doesn't happen again? 

We can learn from the stories of those who have been forgiven, as well as follow the canons given to us by the priest. It is crucial to follow these canons precisely and accept the Holy Flesh and Precious Blood without any hindrance. After confessing and fulfilling the canons, there is nothing stopping us from receiving the Holy Body and Blood.

However, after repentance, we must stay away from sin and strive to listen to the word of God, seek advice from teachers, and sanctify ourselves. If we unintentionally fall into sin, we should rise up with repentance, and if we repeatedly fall, we must repent again and again. The journey towards God is long, and we should not separate ourselves from Him after repentance.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1054 | date:2023-04-29T21:30:52 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

👉🏾 Question from member: I often feel depressed and lonely. Life has no meaning to me, I just want to die and live with Jesus, I've been looking for happiness all my life but I can't find it, I feel like my mind is going to explode, please pray for me, I need prayer, what do you recommend?

✍️Answer:- Why does a person choose loneliness? Why does a person hide? In essence, man is not happy without God, because there is no peace without God. Jesus Christ said in the Gospel of John, chapter 14, verse 27, "Peace I leave with you, and my peace I give you, the peace I give you is not as the world gives; do not let your hearts be troubled, do not be afraid."
 
The world kisses us today then bites tomorrow; gives today then takes away tomorrow. But God does not take away what He has given, no matter what, there is no peace without God. What is life? Life is the opposite of death, life is living. Life is God, it is written, "Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life."
 
Therefore, if we believe in the Son, we live with Jesus who is the life. It is Jesus Christ who gave life when human beings could not live according to the commandment, it is Jesus Christ who enlightened the dark world. In fact, this Christmas (birth) season is called the light. And if it is said who is the light: it is Jesus Christ.

This world was dark before God the Son became a man. The world lived in darkness. It is called light because God became a man and enlightened the world by making us members of His body. Many people's lives are in darkness. Darkness is sin, darkness is betrayal, darkness is hatred, darkness is lack of love; On the other hand, light is Jesus Christ, light is life, light is religion, light is peace, light is help, blessing and love. Because it is our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who gave us that, there is no life without Jesus Christ.
 
As the owner himself told us, John Gospel chapter 15 verse 5 said "without me you can do nothing", so without Jesus Christ nothing can be done. How can peace be found without Jesus Christ? How can you live? Absolutely not possible. When Judas betrayed Jesus Christ for 30 dollars he died because he was separated from Jesus Christ who is life. We remember that when the devil was once the archangel, when he forgot God and said, "I am the creator," and then failed and separated from God who is life.

Also, when Adam lived peacefully in paradise for seven years and did what he was told not to do, he lost peace from God who is life, and found it difficult to live. but then we remember that he found peace when he returned to God, when he reconciled with God, so there is no peace without God.
 
Our questioner said that they want to die and live with Jesus Christ. So, those of us who do not have peace on earth, those who have fallen into sin on earth, those who have not tried to repent to find Jesus Christ, how can we find peace if we die? What qualifies us for the kingdom of heaven is the work we have done on earth to live with Jesus Christ and enable us to live in heaven. If we die on earth covered in sin, without repentance, confession, and reconciliation with God, we will not be able to live with Jesus. Therefore, it means that we cannot live with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ before we repent. 

(to be continued)👇

--- id:1055 | date:2023-04-29T21:33:03 ---
An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

(continued part)👆👇

Our dear member told us that their mind is going to explode. It is God who gives us peace of mind. 
The mind wants shelter, it wants peace but the conscience blames it. For example, a person knows that stealing is bad before learning to steal, knows that killing is bad before learning to kill. Our consciousness tells us what is good and bad because that is the way it was created; Man is a creature created to distinguish good from evil, evil from good, and what is useful from what is not. 

Therefore, we must all seek life, and if we are willing to find life, we can repent of our sins and find God; God is near, God is love. "You return and I will return," God is not a cruel father who tells you to stay where you left. What He told us is  those of you who have fallen come back to me, . God is a compassionate and merciful father.
 
First He created us in His image, we humans failed to live, we fell, we were the kings of creation but because of our sin we fell from our glory; He came back in search of us, born of the Holy Virgin Mary as a man. After that, he paid many prices for us, to bring back our exiled ones, he was exiled for us, then He was whipped with 6666 lashes, crucified in the square of Calvary, to bring us back what we lost and even more. He gave us his holy body and his precious blood. Eat my flesh, drink my blood, that he may bring us back with food that we have fallen by eating, there is no greater life than this.

Even after He has conquered death,  He told us that  if you fall into sin, even if you make a mistake, repent and come to Me. Therefore, what is needed to live with God is to persevere in his house until the end, it is necessary to continuously take part of his holy body and his precious blood, the Eucharist. 
 
As we have said so far, life means living with God, and what is needed to live with God is to first repent. Therefore, may God help us all who have fallen into sin to repent, stay in the house until the end of our lives, receive His holy body and his precious blood, and live with God in his house.
 
Praise be to God, the Virgin Mother and the cross.
 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1058 | date:2023-04-30T22:36:01 ---


--- id:1059 | date:2023-04-30T22:36:01 ---


--- id:1060 | date:2023-04-30T22:36:01 ---


--- id:1061 | date:2023-04-30T22:37:01 ---
👉🏾 About St. #George 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, today is the annual feast of St. George in the EOTC and so we send you this short writing for you to learn about the life of this great saint and martyr. 

St. George is a Christian saint who is widely known for his courage, steadfast faith, and unwavering devotion to God. He was born in 280 A.D. in the city of Capadocia, which was part of the Eastern Empire in Asia Minor. He came from a wealthy and noble Christian family and followed the usual career path of young nobleman by joining the Roman army.

St. George's ability and charm quickly brought him promotion within the army, and eventually, he was made a tribune or an officer in the Imperial Guard by the Emperor. According to one story, he was a friend of Constantine, another officer who later became the first Christian emperor. The legend says that St. George accompanied Constantine to Britain and visited some holy places, including Glastonbury and Caerleon. When he returned to Nicomedia, the capital of the Eastern Empire, he encountered the fierce storm of persecution against Christians.

Diocletian, the emperor at the time, issued a formal edict against Christians on February 23, 303 A.D., which was the feast of Termhlalia. The edict mandated that all churches should be leveled to the ground, all sacred books burned, all Christians who held any honorable rank were to be degraded and deprived of civil rights, and all Christians who were not officials were to be reduced to slavery.

Despite the persecution, St. George boldly stood up for his faith. He pushed his way through the market to read the proclamation in front of the awe-stricken crowd and then deliberately tore down the Imperial edict and threw it away. This act of defiance resulted in his arrest and subsequent encounter with Diocletian.

The Emperor tried to seduce St. George by promising him a higher position in the empire, but St. George remained steadfast in his faith. Diocletian then began to threaten him with unbearable tortures that he would inflict on him. St. George refused to renounce his faith, even in the face of torture, and eventually was imprisoned.

St. George's chastity and suffering are two prominent aspects of his story. Diocletian arranged for a very beautiful woman to spend the night with him in prison to try to debauch him. St. George, who could only look forward to heavenly joy, began to pray and within a short while managed to swing her heart to the Christian faith. She seriously began to inquire about salvation, and by morning she declared that she found her true Bridegroom, Jesus Christ. With great courage, she announced her Christianity to the Emperor and his men and joined the other saintly martyrs.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1062 | date:2023-04-30T22:39:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

As for his suffering, the tortures that were applied to St. George are too numerous to mention in depth, but it is worth noting his utmost love for Christ. His body was torn by a special instrument that had metallic teeth, and our Lord Jesus rose him after his death, leading to the conversion of many pagans. He was put in active lime, and water was poured on it. Again the Lord returned him back to life. The Emperor became very agitated, imagining that the Saint was using magic. He called his top magician, Athanasius, and requested him to prepare a lethal poison to kill St. George.
The Saint signed over the cup with the sign of the cross before drinking it, and of course, no harm came to him. The Emperor's counselors informed him that St. George's magic was, in fact, contained in the sign of the Cross itself. Another cup was also given to the Saint, but this time with his hands tied behind his back. The Saint signed it by his head, saying: "shall I drink it from here or here or here or here!!!"

As St. George stood before the emperor and his court, he was given one last chance to renounce his Christian faith and offer sacrifice to the idols. The emperor promised him great rewards, honors, and privileges if he would do so. But St. George refused, declaring that he would never deny his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

In a final act of defiance, the emperor ordered St. George to be beheaded. The saint willingly accepted his fate and went to his death with courage and grace. He is said to have uttered a prayer to God, thanking Him for the privilege of dying for the faith.

After his martyrdom, St. George's reputation as a courageous and holy man quickly spread throughout the Christian world. Churches were built in his honor, and his feast day was celebrated on this April 23rd. He became known as the patron saint of soldiers, knights, and all who defend the faith.

Today, the legend of St. George and the dragon is still celebrated in many cultures around the world. It has become a symbol of strength, courage, and the triumph of good over evil. The story of St. George reminds us that even in the face of persecution and adversity, we can remain steadfast in our faith and trust in God's love and mercy.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1067 | date:2023-05-01T22:29:09 ---


--- id:1068 | date:2023-05-01T22:29:09 ---


--- id:1069 | date:2023-05-01T22:29:09 ---


--- id:1072 | date:2023-05-03T04:06:31 ---


--- id:1073 | date:2023-05-03T04:06:31 ---


--- id:1074 | date:2023-05-03T04:06:31 ---


--- id:1075 | date:2023-05-03T04:06:40 ---
👉🏾 About holy #Liturgy in the #EOTC

👉Question: When the other three Eastern Orthodox churches have three liturgies, why do we have fourteen liturgies?

👉Answer: This is a matter of faith. We know that the liturgy is a very sacred and mysterious act, and these fourteen liturgies are named after the saints who have been entrusted with the secrets of the Holy Spirit. They participated in the composition of the liturgy, each contributing their own genius.

The Ethiopian Orthodox Church has a unique liturgical tradition that includes fourteen different Anaphoras (the part of the Eucharistic Prayer in which the bread and wine are consecrated). These Anaphoras are attributed to different saints and church fathers who contributed to the development of the church's theology and liturgy.

The fourteen Anaphoras used in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church are: St. Basil, St. Gregory, St. Cyril, St. Dioscorus, St. John the Evangelist, St. James, St. Adai and Mari, St. Julius, St. Philoxenus, St. Peter, St. Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke, and St. Menas. Each of these saints represents a unique theological perspective, and their contributions are recognized and celebrated in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church through the use of their respective Anaphoras.

The use of multiple Anaphoras in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church is based on the belief that each saint has a unique contribution to make to the understanding of the Eucharist. It is believed that the Holy Spirit inspired each of these saints to write their Anaphoras, and that each one offers a different perspective on the mystery of the Eucharist and its significance in the life of the church.

The Ethiopian Orthodox Church also recognizes the three Anaphoras used by other Eastern Orthodox churches, namely the Anaphoras of St. John Chrysostom, St. Basil, and the Presanctified Gifts. However, the church believes that the use of multiple Anaphoras allows for a deeper understanding of the Eucharist and a more complete expression of the church's theology.

The liturgy they composed was inspired by the Holy Spirit and met the required standards. It was not simply put together by a person or a committee who collected money and then released it. When we consider the mystical composition of our these liturgies, it is truly wonderful. There is no word of God that is not included or touched upon. Why should we limit ourselves to only three liturgies, as in the case of the other Eastern Orthodox churches? They have their own reasons for having only these three liturgies in their canon.

To finish,, the Ethiopian Orthodox Church has fourteen different Anaphoras that are used during Mass, each attributed to a different saint or church father who contributed to the development of the church's theology and liturgy. The use of multiple Anaphoras allows for a more complete expression of the church's theology and a deeper understanding of the mystery of the Eucharist.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1079 | date:2023-05-03T23:40:03 ---


--- id:1080 | date:2023-05-03T23:40:12 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The ER For The #Soul
Seeking out #Healing in the Life of the Church

Orthodoxy offers a very precise way in which to enter into communion with God. It is a way that must be learned, for simply "becoming Orthodox" will not lead the seeker into an inner life that will transform, and enlighten. Membership in the Church is simply not enough, for the Church is not about beautiful services, icons, or mystical theology. As a hospital for the soul, the Church is a place wherein we can receive healing for that which ails us. It is the place where we can be cured, and made whole.

Like the emergency room of a local hospital, a patient can't simply walk in, and expect to be healed. They have to submit themselves to examination by the ER staff, who will ask them to describe what is going on, where they are hurting, run tests, and, finally, prescribe the necessary medication that will bring about healing.

Within the hospital of the soul, that is the Church, her priests act in the same capacity as the ER personnel. They interview the patient (parishioner), and examine the heart to find the sickness, and recommend the cure. The priest becomes the therapeutic guide, recommending what the patient (seeker) can do in order to be made whole.

A prayer rule, the daily reading of the Holy Scriptures, frequent confession and reception of the Holy Mysteries, are all part of the Church's medicine that will bring about the cure. Just as the doctor will prescribe the proper dosage, after getting to know his patient, so too, does the priest prescribe that which will help his spiritual son or daughter.

The spiritual life is something that needs to be learned, perhaps more so now, than at any time in the history of our world. As godlessness increases, so do the obstacles to spiritual progress. The degradation of the whole of our society, and the depths of depravity that have become a normal part of our age, have made this a dangerous time. Going it alone spirituality can leave one vulnerable to spiritual delusion. We all need a trusted and experienced guide who can help us avoid the pitfalls of the pride and self-will that would lead us down to perdition.

Source: Abbot Tryphon from the Russian Orthodox Church 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1084 | date:2023-05-04T22:10:01 ---
👉🏾 About how to overcome #anxiety
 
Question: How can I overcome my anxiety? How can I find peace in the midst of life's trials?

Answer: Are we, as Orthodox Christians, meant to worry? Our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, told us not to worry, so why are we worried? When a person is separated from God, sin becomes their dwelling place. Sin and lack of understanding deprives us from peace and makes us anxious.

A person without God has no peace or sleep. In general, a person who is dwelling in sin loses everything, and is filled with anxiety. Therefore, we are told not to worry and to "Cast all your worries on God, for He cares for you" (1 Peter 5:7).

In the sixth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew, it is written, "And why do you worry about clothes? See how the flowers of the field grow. They do not labor or spin. Yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his splendor was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, will He not much more clothe you—you of little faith? So do not worry, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’ For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well" (Matthew 6:28-33).

This is why Orthodox Christians say "Our Father" in prayer, asking God to "have mercy on us as a father has compassion on his children" (Psalm 103:13). In addition, in Psalm 102, verse 1, it is written, "Praise the Lord, my soul; all my inmost being, praise His holy name. Praise the Lord, my soul, and forget not all His benefits—who forgives all your sins and heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit and crowns you with love and compassion, who satisfies your desires with good things so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s."

If God has mercy on us and can fulfill our desires, why should we worry? Worrying and thinking are different. We can think, dream, and plan without worrying. Worry is the result of despair, but we are people who have hope.

If we have everything we need with God, why should we give up? Our purpose is to do what we can with God and never give up hope. If we fall into sin, we repent, for "the one who conceals their sins does not prosper, but the one who confesses and renounces them finds mercy" (Proverbs 28:13). If we are reconciled to God through repentance, what we lost will be returned to us. Therefore, we should not give up but rather think it through.

Let us give all our worries to God, focus on what is expected of us, and leave the rest to Him. As the apostles said, "Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you" (1 Peter 5:7). We need to understand that we are required to do this.

Knowing that anxiety is the result of sin and a sign of separation from God, the solution is to live with God, repent of our sins, listen to God, and let go of things that worry us.

Peace can be found in the midst of life's trials when we live with God. Jesus Christ is the Prince of Peace, and in John 14:27, He said, "Peace I leave with you". 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1088 | date:2023-05-05T21:30:21 ---
👉🏾 About #family and #social life

Question: How to solve complex family problems? How to build a loving and Christ-centered family?
 
✍️Answer:- The first question we should ask ourselves is how did complexity arise? What is the source of this complexity, and answer these questions from the different stakeholders involved. When did it start, and how long did it last? Understanding these issues is crucial to finding a solution. As the saying goes, "knowing the problem is half the journey to the solution." Therefore, the first step in solving a problem is to understand it.

If there is complex problems in a family, this is often a sign of lack of Love in the family. Love is the foundation of everything, and if it is present in our families, everything else follows suit. As the book says, "Where there is love, there is no mistrust, hatred, or possession. Love is the root of all good."

Therefore, the complexity of our lives is due to the lack of love in our homes, neighborhoods, and surroundings. Saint Peter said, "With love, anything is possible, and with love, there is patience and meekness." The absence of love creates complex problems in our homes and elsewhere.

The solution is to cultivate love in our homes. Love is God, and if Christ is in our homes, there will be no problems. When Christ is in our homes, love is present. Therefore, we are all called to live in love and in Christ. We should never have a life or family outside of Christ. Christ loved us and gave us His holy body to eat and His precious blood to drink. This is what Christianity is all about. It is when we understand this that we understand what Love is.

To build a family that is free of complexity, we must rely on love, hold on to God, make the Virgin Mary our mother, seek the intercession of holy angels, righteous martyrs, virgin monks, and look to the way of life of our ancestors for guidance. This is possible through the grace of God, and may our God help us live in love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1089 | date:2023-05-05T22:11:53 ---
👉🏾 Explanation about the #Cross

👉 Question: Can we wear any gold cross necklace that is sold at the shop work or does it need to be bought at the church? 

✍️Answer:- When purchasing a cross, it is preferable to buy it from an Orthodox Christian shop or from the church itself. It is important to be mindful that a cross purchased for the sake of fashion or marketing is devoid of spiritual meaning. After purchasing a cross or any other holy item, it is best practice to have it blessed by the priest before put in use.

It is also important to buy any holy goods, seals, and holy books from an Orthodox Christian shop or the church to show respect for these sacred items. One should avoid buying them from those who do not understand their significance.

When we wear a cross, we must also remember the suffering of Christ and remember that wearing it is not enough and that we should "carry the cross" and live a Christian life. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1090 | date:2023-05-06T00:20:23 ---
👉🏾 About #repentance, #fornication, #marriage and other life struggles 

What should I do if I still love my Muslim ex-boyfriend even after confessing to a Bishop and trying to follow religious teachings?

👉 Question: Hi, I wanted to ask you questions. I am a college student and when I was in campus I fell in love wish a muslim guy. First it was just talking so I didn't take it seriously but slowly it turned into physical things and we start having sex. I know it was wrong but I couldn't help my self. We dated almost for 5 months and all those times we use to have sex, go out clubimg, drink and alot of things. Then he starts taking about marriage add if that was possible and the only thing I was scared of was my family. I don't know I was just blind by love but I know I can never marry him. A few months later, I left the city and I started thinking about everything and I got really scared and started going to church. I met a Bishop and I told them everything and he said to do 'kédër' and get a father of pennance to confess my sins. I said okay and I stop the relationship with my him. But I couldn't do every the Bishop told me because I still love him and think about him. I am scared because even if I do all but my heartache for him it will be a sin. I don't know what to do please tell me what to do and pray for me.

Answer፦ There are things that we do knowingly and unknowingly. When our dear member listed and explained everything to us, they themselves admitted that they knew it was bad when they did it. Those who knowingly engage in bad behavior should repent and seek God's protection, council of Church fathers and restraint themselves from such actions because this is the right thing to do. 

Many of us sin, knowing that it is wrong, but we don't want to correct our mistakes. While our dear member's coming to repentance is commendable, it is a weakness that they do not return and correct their mistakes.

Just acknowledging what sin is does not mean anything if we do not truly understand it. For example, do we understand that premarital sex and having sex with non-religious individuals are sins? If so, why do we engage in such acts? 

Would a sane person knowingly drink poison that they know will kill them? Just as a healthy person would not do such a thing, we must understand that sin is worse than that because it results in losing God, peace, paradise, and eternal life.

If we are willing to repent and return to God, then everything we have done wrong will be forgiven. The holy father who spoke to our dear member gave her a good advice and she should be grateful for this blessing because bishops are the main fathers of the church and it is not easy to find time with them. 

As the bishop said, you must repent, confess and do the baptism of Keder. So you must not look back, understand that this is something that separated you from God, your creator and avoid it at all costs. Do we not believe in eternal life? Do we not believe in the God that became one of us to share his nature with us? Do we not know that we are members of the body of Christ? Do we not know that the Holy Spirit is to reside within us? Do we not know that it is Holy blood of Christ that is united with our and flows through our vains? Do we not know that it is the Holy Flesh of our Lord and savior Jesus Christ which has been made one with ours? Do we not understand the love of God? And if we do, is this what we are willing to trade for misery and pain on earth, and eternal fire thereafter? Because these are the only fruits of such a relationship, it doesn't even bring earltly joy we just choose to think it does. 

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1091 | date:2023-05-06T00:20:58 ---
(Continued) 👆

Regarding marriage, spiritual justice must be considered before marrying. Religion, ethics, age, and health are important factors to consider. Since the first requirement of marriage is religion, the solution is for the partner to come and be baptized in the Orthodox Church. It is not acceptable to engage in premarital sex, which goes against the Church's teachings.

If our dear member still likes the Muslim person, they should pray for him to come to the religion and for their own heart to turn towards good thoughts. Consulting with him about his intention to marry and their willingness to be baptized in the Orthodox Church is essential. Living together in marriage without following the Church's teachings is not acceptable, and one must repent and do what is expected of them from by the Church. 

We have two choices: to live with God or to live apart from God, but a life apart from God is reat not an option. We must acknowledge that knowingly or unknowingly, we have made mistakes thus far. God is merciful and forgiving, and we should understand and know that He says, "Return to Me, and I will return to you." Without giving too many reasons, our first duty is to repent for our sinful nature.

After this, we should ask God to help us for the rest of our lives through prayer. Our prayer should express gratitude and supplication. We should thank God for bringing us here and acknowledge that a life apart from God cannot be called love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1097 | date:2023-05-08T01:19:40 ---
👉 About #Death and #Consolation

👉 Question: How can I cope with the loss of a loved one and be comforted by the hope of resurrection?

✍️ Answer: The first step in coping with death is understanding what it is. Ecclesiastes Chapter 7, Verse 1 says, "The day of death is better than the day of birth. The righteous are born to suffering and pain, but their death is rest from all this." Thus, we must understand that death is a rest from the hardships of life and hope that our loved ones are at peace.

We are comforted by the belief that death is a journey to God. St. Yared said, "The righteous do not die, but go to their Lord." Therefore, death is a path that leads to God.

However, there is a difference in death for the righteous and the wicked. The death of the righteous is glorious in the eyes of God, whereas the death of the wicked is not. Hence, it is crucial to reflect on the nature of the death we will experience.

The third type of death is separation from this world, from its pain and suffering, and entering a world without suffering.

St. Paul's Epistle to the Philippians from Chapter 1 verse 21-24 states, "For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain. If I am to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labor for me. Yet what shall I choose? I do not know! I am torn between the two: I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far; but it is more necessary for you that I remain in the body." It is natural to want to accompany a loved one on their journey to God, and we can find solace in knowing that they are in His presence.

Death is a means by which God takes his people. We are God's possessions, and He has the right to take away His possessions whenever He wants. It is beyond our control, and we must accept it with understanding.

Therefore, whether a person is righteous or a sinner, they will die. The difference lies in the outcome of their death. The righteous die to enter heaven, and the sinner dies to descend into hell. It is important to acknowledge this difference while accepting death as a natural part of life.

We can find comfort in the hope of resurrection, as Christ rose from the dead and showed us that it is possible. We say "we hope for the resurrection of the dead" in our daily prayers, and it is one of the five pillar mysteries of the Church. Christ's resurrection is an example for us, and just as He rose from the dead, we will rise again by God's authority. This is the hope we hold onto.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1099 | date:2023-05-08T22:26:25 ---


--- id:1100 | date:2023-05-08T22:26:25 ---


--- id:1101 | date:2023-05-08T22:26:32 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Holy #Christos #Semara

Our mother, Saint Christos Samra, was born in the district of Shewa Bulga. Her given name was Saint Gaye, and she was born to her God-fearing parents, Saint Deresani and Saint Eleni, on May 20th. Her parents, impressed by her character, raised her with a deep understanding of the laws of God and the order of the church. She later gave birth to eleven children from her husband, Samre Giorgis, nine of whom were males and two of whom were females.

During the reign of Emperor Gebre Meskel, Saint Christos Samra became a righteous Ethiopian who was universally praised for her morals and religion. Upon hearing of her fame, Emperor Gebre Meskel sent 174 servants from among his own to serve her. He also sent her many horses, mules, clothes made of silk and gold, fit for the wives of kings, and shoes of gold. However, Saint Christos Samra did not want any of these things, saying, "I will be hindered and praised for my purpose, the gold and jewelry will be sold and used to feed the poor, but what will I do with these servants?" She asked to God for guidance. A few days later, Saint Michael, the archangel, whose face shines like the sun, came to her with three loaves of bread in his hand and said, "O Kristos Samra, Behold, eat this bread, for God has given it to you in His kindness." Saint Christos Samra thanked her Creator and received the bread from the angel's hand. She ate it, and the aroma and taste fortified her body. As a result, she did not eat food or drink water for three days because the Holy Spirit was within her.

One day, one of her servants which was very troublesome angered her very much and St. Kristos Samra put fire in the servant's mouth. The fire went up to the servant's throat and killed her. Saint Christos Samra was shocked and went into another room, confessing her sins to God. She was very sad and regretful for her loss. God heard her prayer and resurrected her servant from the dead. Our mother Saint Christos Samra said, "Glory be to the God who has not neglected my pleas and has not removed His kindness from me and His servant." She took her baby and went to Mount Lebanon. As she left, the ogre, who lived with gentleness and care, made a trail despite the many barriers and obstacles. She cut the flesh and threw it to the ground, her blood spilling on the ground.

The baby she was carrying was a boy, and she put him down at the door. When the baby was crying bitterly, one of the nuns wanted to take him to her sanctuary. When the baby was crying, the Archangel Saint Michael snatched him away and placed him in heaven.

On one of the days, Saint Michael took her out of the fire, carried her on his wings, and brought her to the island of Tana. She remained there like a planted pillar in the sea for twelve years, standing and praying without coming out until her body was broken and became a passageway for sea fish. After twelve years, our Lord appeared to her and made a promise to her. After this, she spent her entire life in great struggle, and our Lord visited her with His Holy Mother every now and then. Saint Michael, her guardian of all time, blessed her. Our holy mother Christ used to go to the blessed country of Samara and talk with the saints living there for seven days. She was going back to the land of the living where Enoch and Elijah were.

Once, on the other side of Tana, there was a monk named Mekabe God, and an angel called Tsilmat came to him and said, "If you deny the Creator and bury this medicine in your body, death and old age will not overtake you." However, the monk, being warned by the angel about this evil idea, buried his body in the ground.

One day, God's punishment came upon the holy Christ and she prayed, "I send you peace and beg for your mercy. I have committed many sins, to the point of denying God who created me." At that time, our Holy Mother quickly got up and went to the church, being deeply saddened by the man's words, and pointed him towards his creator.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1102 | date:2023-05-08T22:33:40 ---
(Continued) 👆

On the other side of Tana, there was a monk named Mekabe Egzi, and an angel called Tsilmat came to him and said, "If you deny the Creator and bury this medicine in your body, death and old age will not overtake you." However, the monk, being warned by the angel about this evil idea, buried his body in the ground.

One day, God's punishment came upon him and he said to Kristos Samra: "I send you peace and beg for your mercy. I have committed many sins, to the point of denying God who created me." At that time, our Holy Mother quickly got up and went to the church, being deeply saddened by the man's words, and pointed him towards his creator. Our Lord then appeared and said, "My friend Christos Samra, I am the God who punishes, save, and forgives and this man does not deserve mercy. However, because of your love, I will have mercy on him." At this time, she bowed down before God and said "Oh God, great is your mercy and far from us is your wrath and punishment. Everything is possible for you." She begged him, and our Lord forgave the man for his sins through her prayer.

After this, when she removed the medicine that was buried from his head to his toes, his blood flowed like water from a canal, and his soul departed from his body to become one with the martyrs of the community.

God has given the Holy Christ Samira six wings. During her baptism, Moses took her right hand, and Elijah and John the Baptist brought the water of the Jordan River, in which the Lord was baptized, and poured it on her head. No one has been baptized in such a way since the baptism of our Lord. They prophesied that she would become the head of a monastery in a place called Gwangut, where she would have many followers and ascend to heaven.

(To be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1118 | date:2023-05-09T22:55:21 ---


--- id:1119 | date:2023-05-09T22:55:21 ---


--- id:1120 | date:2023-05-09T22:55:21 ---


--- id:1121 | date:2023-05-09T22:55:31 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the birth of our Lady, the Virgin #Mary. 

Dear esteemed members of the John’s Repentance telegram channel, we are pleased to send you this lesson in celebration of the anniversary of our Lady's birth, which is celebrated on May 9th.

The conception of the Holy Virgin Mary took place fifteen years before the Year of Mercy, in the year 5485 on the eve of the Year of Mercy. As the time for God to forgive His people drew near, the dove of peace appeared on earth to herald the end of destruction. Our Lady is descended from priests on her mother's side and kings on her father's side. Anyone who claims to know Christ but is ignorant of the Virgin Mary's identity, glory, holiness, and her role in the salvation of Adam's race is mistaken.

Some people wrongly claim that the Bible doesn't provide much information about the Virgin Mary. But what needs to be said? It was prophesied in advance that she would give birth to the Lord God, who made heaven, the throne, the earth, the footstool, the sanctity that is the money of nature, and all the creatures that were found by him in the past, and the infinite things that were found in him, the subtle and the giant that was held in the palm of his hand and appeared in front of his eyes. Later, the angel informed her that the time had come. And she gave birth to him, just as she was told. What could be more amazing than saying that she gave birth to the creator, nursed the milk of the all-giver, contained everything, carried Him in her womb, and carried Him on her back?

Our Lady, the Holy Virgin Mary, is the purest of all people, the city of God. Her sanctity is unmatched.

When we say,  “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!" we are acknowledging God's plan to save humankind through a human being who was a pure seed passed down through the loins of the fathers. Through this plan, we were saved from destruction. (Luke 1:42) "Unless the Lord of hosts Had left to us a very small remnant, We would have become like Sodom, We would have been made like Gomorrah." (Isaiah 1:9)

Therefore, Our Lady is a saint who has never been touched by the sin of Adam and Eve that was passed down to generations. As it is written in the Book of Negere Mariam(ነገረ ማርያም), the ancestors of Our Lady on her mother's side, Hana, were named Petrika Tekta(ጴጥሪቃ ቴክታ
), and both of them were pious and God-fearing people who trusted in their God with all their hearts without doubt. They were very rich at that time. 

One day, Petrikah's friend went into the archives and saw the amount of wealth and said to his wife, Tekta, "Even the money we collected would have been saved for our grandchildren. You and I are barren and we have no children to inherit." She thought that he meant that he wanted to have a child, so she said to him in sadness, "If the Lord Israel does not give you a child from me, he will give you someone else, marry someone else and have a child." He said, "The God of Israel knows that I will not do this, and that I will not think it in my heart."

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1122 | date:2023-05-09T22:55:39 ---
(Continued) 👆

When Tekta was feeling sad, she saw a vision and said, "The work of God is truly amazing. In my dream last night, I saw a white calf come out of me, and that calf gave birth to another white calf. This continued for seven generations, until the seventh gave birth to the moon, and the moon gave birth to the sun."

Petrikah was astonished and consulted a dream interpreter about his wife's vision. The interpreter revealed that seven female calves and seven daughters would be born, and that the seventh daughter, who would give birth to the moon, would be more glorious than the angels. However, the interpreter did not reveal the name of the sun. When Petrikah relayed this to his wife, she thanked God, saying "He knows what the God of Israel does." Soon after, she gave birth to a daughter named Hemen, who in turn gave birth to Hemen, who gave birth to Derde. Derdem have birth to Tonan; And then she gave birth to Sikar. Sikar have birth to Setnan and she gave birth to Hermela. Hermela gave birth to Hanna, who was honored and chosen to be the grandmother of the Lord who created the whole world.

The Holy Spirit had revealed to the honorable David the honor of the Holy Virgin Mary, especially her birth, through the gift of singing and prophecy: "The LORD loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob. Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God." (Psalm 87:1-7)  Mary was eventually betrothed to Yakem, the grandson of Lazarus, who was born to a poor family in the kingdom of Judah.

Ethiopian Orthodox Church scholars, who are well-versed in ancient church texts, attest to the first miracle of Mary's birth. According to verses 15-16, Mary's father, Jacob, was from the House of King David, while her mother, Hannah, was from the lineage of Aaron the priest. Mary's lineage can thus be traced to both the royal family and the priesthood.

Prophet Isaiah, one of the first prophets, was guided by the Holy Spirit and prophesied that the Holy Virgin Mary would be born from the side of Jesse, and from her would come a physical word called "tsige," which means "flower" in English. He said, "And a flower will come out of it," which is a wonderful prophecy.

(To be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1123 | date:2023-05-10T22:18:30 ---


--- id:1124 | date:2023-05-10T22:18:30 ---


--- id:1125 | date:2023-05-10T22:18:30 ---


--- id:1126 | date:2023-05-10T22:20:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the birth of our Lady, the Virgin #Mary. (Part 2)

Both Hannah and Jacob were God-fearing people who lived by the law, and God had chosen them. Since Hannah was barren, they went to God's house every day and begged for a child who would be a delight to their eyes and a hope for their hearts. One day when they were sad and praying, they saw doves happily playing with their children. Hannah cried bitterly and said, "O my Lord, who gave a child for an animal who has no conscience? Why did you not bless me with a child?" They immediately started fasting and private retreat. Jacob went to the desert and prayed, while Hannah started in the garden around her house. At the end of their fasting and private retreat, they both saw a vision and spoke.

The seven heavens appeared like a veil, and they told Hannah that she saw a white bird come down from the upper sky and sit on her head. The secret of the vision is that when the physical word called "Mif(ምፍ)" is Christ, and his whiteness is his purity. Hannah said, "I saw him come down from above and sit on my head." The fullness of our Lord is the interpretation of the seven heavens.

Hannah also told her husband about a vision she had, in which she saw a white dove sitting on her head, entering her ear, and sleeping in her womb. The secret behind this vision is that the Holy Virgin Mary is symbolized by a dove - a representation of her purity, holiness, and eternal virginity. In Hannah's vision, the white dove came down from her head, entered her ear, and rested in her womb. It was then that she heard the voice of the Archangel Gabriel in her ear, asking her if she would give birth to the pure dove that would conceive God through the Holy Spirit.

After Jacob and Hannah saw this vision on July 30th, they said, "If we have a son, he will be dedicated to serve the house of God. And if we have a daughter, we will make a veil for God's house and she will serve there." After they swore that they saw a vision, they did not meet again that day. The God who said to Adam and Eve, "Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth" also granted this to them. It was not only because Hannah and Joachim entered into fasting and private retreat to complete the mourning of the court, but it was also because of their piety and devotion to God that they were granted such a blessing. This event marked a new era in the history of mankind, and through the incarnation of Christ, God's plan for salvation was revealed.

In truth, many prophets announced the Sabbath and sanctified fasting. Jeremiah said that the seven days are one day, Daniel said that the seven weeks are one period of withdrawal from worldly affairs, and Enoch spoke many prophecies, counting the seven generations as one one period of withdrawal from worldly affairs. But the idea of all is the same, to reach the time of the virgin. The cry of all these ended with the cry of Hannah and Jacob.

On the thirteenth day of the month of August, the archangel Gabriel appeared to Hana and announced, "You will give birth to a daughter who is greater than any human and more glorious than all the angels." And so it was by the will of God that the conception of Our Lady took place on Sunday, August 13th.

Although the festival of the Conception of the Holy Virgin Mary is celebrated all over the world, the ancient and apostolic Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, where the head of God was conceived, celebrates it with great splendor on August 13th in Mahlet. The holiday is known as "Conception of Mary" and is also celebrated by Christians around the world as "The Conception of the Theotokos," but they observe it on December 9th in preparation for celebrating her birth.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:1127 | date:2023-05-10T22:22:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

The son of Tolik named Saminas, who was impressed by Ajgu, went from Edok to his uncle's house and passed away. While Hana was walking around holding the pillow of the bed, according to the custom of their country, Saminas quickly got up and said to her, 'Say to the God who created the heavens and the earth, and peace be with you, Hana.' The Jews who were there were frightened and asked, "What did you see, Saminas? What are you saying?"

He said, 'I heard all the angels praising her, saying that the child born from Hannah's womb will give birth to the God who created the heavens and the earth. And she is the one who raised me." Instead of thanking God, when they heard this, they were filled with jealousy and malice. They thought that if Hana saved the fetus in her womb, she would use it against them. Therefore, they urged to stone Hana and Yaakim to death before she gave birth.


At that time, the great archangel Gabriel appeared to Joachim and told him to take Hannah to a mountain called Lebanon. When he first revealed her to the angels on his wings, it was to give her the right of guardianship, as he said through the emissary who was entrusted to protect her from the time of mercy.

Because she is not of this world, she left her home accompanied by her spiritual relatives and angels so that the people who were in the house would not enjoy worldly pleasures because of her birth. As the mother of the Lord who was seeking Adam, who had left his home and lost God, she left the house and traveled to Mount Lebanon, a great place where her ancestors and prophets had seen her in a vision. For she is the Bride of Lebanon who was prophesied to be born in a den of lions under the shade of the mountains of Lebanon.

The wise King Solomon was visited by God and revealed to him that our Lady would be born on Mount Lebanon: "Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse, With me from Lebanon. Look from the top of Amana, From the top of Senir and Hermon, From the lions’ dens, From the mountains of the leopards." (Song of Solomon 4:8). And so, the Holy Virgin Mary was born on Mount Lebanon (Mah 4:10).

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1131 | date:2023-05-11T22:03:38 ---


--- id:1132 | date:2023-05-11T22:03:38 ---


--- id:1133 | date:2023-05-11T22:03:38 ---


--- id:1134 | date:2023-05-11T22:03:54 ---
👉🏾 About #prayer 

👉 Question: How to develop a deep prayer life and strengthen my spiritual life every day; How can I get closer to God?

Answer: In the pursuit of a profound prayer life and the strengthening of your spiritual journey, it is crucial to approach this endeavor with unwavering commitment, a sincere heart, and a deep understanding of its significance. Let us delve into several key principles, which can serve as guiding lights on the path to experiencing a deeper connection with God through prayer.

First and foremost, prayer should be recognized as a sacred conversation with the Creator—a transcendent opportunity to engage in a direct dialogue with the Almighty. It is not a mere ritualistic duty or an obligation to be fulfilled mechanically; rather, it is an invitation to commune intimately with the divine. In embracing this understanding, one's love for prayer will flourish, and the recognition of its indispensable role in nurturing spiritual well-being will deepen. Let prayer be seen as the very essence of life itself, for just as a person ceases to breathe without air, one who neglects prayer becomes spiritually lifeless.

To truly enter into the spirit of prayer, it is essential to direct our thoughts and intentions towards God. Begin by expressing heartfelt gratitude for His abundant blessings in your life—recognize the gifts of love, grace, and mercy bestowed upon you. Humbly seek His guidance and assistance in all aspects of your existence, acknowledging your dependence upon Him. Remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, who admonished us to "watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation." Approach prayer with unwavering sincerity, knowing that it strengthens your resolve, deepens your understanding of God's will, and helps you align your life with His divine purpose.

In order to nurture your spiritual life, it is beneficial to establish clear goals in your prayer practice. Take time to reflect upon your purpose and aspirations in your journey as a Christian. Identify areas in need of growth and development, and bring them before God in prayer. Focus your prayers on cultivating virtues such as love, patience, humility, and forgiveness. Seek to deepen your faith, exploring the mysteries of divine truth and opening your heart to receive spiritual illumination. Embrace a spirit of service, praying for opportunities to extend compassion, kindness, and generosity to those in need. By establishing such intentional goals, you infuse your prayers with purpose and align them with your desired spiritual development.

Consistency in prayer is vital. Establish dedicated times each day, free from distractions, to commune with God. Find a peaceful and secluded space where you can withdraw from the noise and busyness of the world, creating an atmosphere conducive to deepening your connection with the divine. By adhering to a regular prayer routine, you establish a rhythm that reinforces your spiritual bond and fosters a sense of discipline in your spiritual life. Whether it be in the early morning, before meals, or before retiring to rest, choose a time that best suits your circumstances and commit to it unwaveringly.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:1135 | date:2023-05-11T22:07:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

While consistency is crucial, it is equally important to approach prayer with a genuine spirit of engagement and authenticity. Avoid the temptation to recite prayers mechanically, without heartfelt contemplation. Instead, strive to imbue each prayer with fervor, sincerity, and attentive presence. Cultivate an inner disposition of openness and receptivity, allowing your prayers to flow from the depths of your being. Approach God as a loving Father who longs to hear from His children, and pour out your heart before Him with childlike trust and vulnerability. By engaging in prayer with such authenticity, you create the space for deep transformation and spiritual growth to take root within you.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1139 | date:2023-05-12T22:27:14 ---


--- id:1140 | date:2023-05-12T22:28:16 ---
👉🏾 About Coping With #Emotions 

👉Question: How can I deal with feelings of loneliness and isolation and establish healthy relationships with others?

✍️ Answer፦ Beloved members of Joh’s repentance service, let us delve deeply into the profound topic of loneliness and isolation, and the path towards establishing healthy relationships with others. Understand, my dear ones, that loneliness in the context of our Orthodox faith transcends mere physical solitude. It encompasses a far-reaching spiritual state, where one has renounced the allure of worldly desires, material possessions, and all that displeases our Lord. However, it is vital to discern that this loneliness does not imply a lack of love for our fellow human beings or for our Creator. When we speak of loneliness, it is essential to distinguish it from the condition of one who rejects the ways of Christ and lives contrary to the teachings of our faith.

As devout Orthodox Christians, we firmly believe that we are never truly alone. We are an integral part of a vast and blessed spiritual community, encompassing the Holy Virgin Mary, the angelic hosts, the holy prophets, the noble apostles, the courageous martyrs, the pure virgins, the devoted monks, the reverent priests, and the diligent deacons. This holy assemblage, spanning both the earthly realm and the realm of eternity, stands united in communion with us and intercedes on our behalf. Let us always bear in mind that Christianity, is a faith rooted in unity—a faith that emphasizes the communion of saints over individualistic pursuits of personal salvation.

So, how do we confront the daunting specter of loneliness and isolation that oftentimes besets our hearts? How do we forge genuine and healthy relationships with others? The answer, my dear ones, lies in our steadfast commitment to unity—the bedrock of our faith. Christianity calls us to live in peace and harmony with all, recognizing that we are bound together as children of the Most High. True loneliness dissipates when we grasp the profound sense of belonging to a spiritual family that transcends physical boundaries and worldly limitations.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1141 | date:2023-05-12T22:30:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

To combat the insidious nature of loneliness and fortify the bonds of unity, we must actively strive to deserve the abundant blessings bestowed upon us as members of Christ's mystical body, the Church. We ought to acknowledge that every person who has been baptized in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit is not merely a fellow believer but also a spiritual relative, eternally linked to us. Distance and temporal circumstances cannot sever this unbreakable bond of spiritual kinship. While physical kinship is finite, spiritual kinship extends beyond the grasp of death, unifying us in a bond of love and faith that spans both time and eternity.

Embracing our true identity as children of the Heavenly Father, we can transcend the shackles of loneliness, which often manifest as bitterness, anger, or self-centeredness. We are called to emulate the noble examples set by our spiritual forefathers—the prophets, the apostles, and the righteous martyrs. Consider the words our Lord uttered from the cross, words that resound through the ages: "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." In our pursuit of unity, forgiveness and understanding must be cultivated within our hearts. Just as those who came before us pardoned those who persecuted them, so too must we extend forgiveness to our fellow brethren, fostering a spirit of unity and harmony. The path of Christianity urges us to live in profound accord and to toil diligently for the salvation of all.

It is of utmost importance, dear members,  to comprehend that dwelling in the depths of loneliness and isolation, entangled in the web of negative emotions, serves neither our spiritual growth nor the edification of our fellow believers. Instead, let us fervently strive for unity, unwaveringly embracing the teachings of our faith, which have been exemplified ​​throughout history by the sacrificial love of our Lord Jesus Christ upon the cross. His selfless act of redemption teaches us the profound significance of unity and its transformative power in our lives.

Let us reflect upon the great examples set before us by the saints and luminaries of our faith. They, too, faced their share of loneliness and isolation, yet they triumphed through unwavering faith and a deep connection to the body of Christ. These holy men and women understood that Christianity is not a solitary journey, but a communal endeavor—a shared pilgrimage towards the Kingdom of God.

The lives of the saints bear witness to the transformative potential of unity in the face of adversity. They teach us that in times of desolation, we are never truly alone. The saints, who now dwell in the glorious presence of our Lord, continue to guide us, pray for us, and intercede on our behalf. They stand as a testament to the power of communal love and solidarity.

Within the context of the Church, we find a profound source of unity and support. The sacraments, liturgical worship, and communal gatherings offer us opportunities to connect with our fellow believers, to share in the life-giving grace of the Holy Spirit, and to strengthen the bonds of brotherhood and sisterhood. By actively participating in the life of the Church, we enter into communion not only with the faithful present in our local communities but also with the entire body of Christ across time and space.

In our daily lives, we must strive to foster unity through acts of love, compassion, and forgiveness. By embracing the virtues of humility and selflessness, we create an environment where healthy relationships can flourish. We must be mindful of the words we speak, seeking to uplift and encourage one another rather than engaging in divisive or hurtful discourse. Genuine and attentive listening is a precious gift we can offer, allowing others to feel heard, valued, and understood.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1142 | date:2023-05-12T22:33:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

Moreover, let us not limit our love and concern to those within our immediate circles. Christianity challenges us to extend our love and care to the wider community, particularly to those who are marginalized, lonely, and in need. By reaching out to the downtrodden and offering a helping hand, we embody the essence of Christ's teachings and build bridges of connection that transcend social barriers.

As we navigate the complexities of human relationships, let us also turn to prayer as a source of solace and guidance. Through our communion with God, we find comfort in knowing that He is always present, ever attentive to our joys, sorrows, and longings. In prayer, we can pour out our hearts before the Lord, seeking His guidance, strength, and the grace to cultivate healthy and meaningful connections with others.

Beloved members, may we never lose sight of the fact that Christianity is a faith of unity. It calls us to transcend the limitations of our individual lives and embrace the interconnectedness of the human family. In unity, we discover the richness of authentic relationships, the transformative power of communal worship, and the assurance that we are never truly alone. Let us, therefore, strive earnestly to live out this unity in our daily lives, guided by the example of Christ and the wisdom of the saints. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with us all. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1146 | date:2023-05-13T21:35:57 ---
👉🏾 About the #sin that is above all sins 

Question፦ What is Ethiopia Orthodox church stand about suicide?

Answer፦ The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church holds a firm stance against suicide, considering it a grave sin and strongly condemning the act. The Church does not provide a dignified funeral or orderly burial for individuals who have taken their own lives, as a means to discourage and set an example for others.

When a child is born into the Church, it is believed that they will grow up to replace their parents and contribute positively to the world. Therefore, when a child tragically succumbs to suicide, it is seen as deviating from their purpose and succumbing to the hidden and abstract influence of evil spirits. The Church views suicide as a spiritual issue, often associated with struggles such as addictions, disharmony within families, marital problems, and difficulties in social relationships.

Suicide is regarded as an act of sin and is considered evil and cursed according to the religious laws and canons of the Church. The prevalence of sin in today's society has made such acts more common, with individuals resorting to various methods such as poisoning, using weapons, drowning, or engaging in car accidents. The Church firmly condemns these actions and deems them as sinful.

To distance ourselves from the influence of the world and satanic forces, we must strive to live a righteous and virtuous life. Even in the face of disasters or circumstances that may bring shame to the soul and body, forsaking eternal life and perishing in this world without a peaceful death signifies the peak of our own injustice and self-destruction. The Church acknowledges that vulnerable individuals, including children, women, and innocents, may succumb to suicide due to pressure and temptation from the same enemy—Satan, who takes pleasure in destroying people and leading them towards self-annihilation.

While there may be instances where individuals use weapons to end their lives, perhaps driven by a misguided sense of bravery or refusing to surrender their country's honor or personal dignity on the battlefield, the Ethiopian Orthodox Church strictly condemns and prohibits suicide. The Church recognizes that people can fall victim to such disasters, but it emphasizes that embracing suicide as an option and collaborating with the power of Satan or his destructive ideas is contrary to its teachings.

The Church is ready to provide spiritual services and support to its children who are confronted with the tragedy of suicide. However, it vehemently rejects any actions that would further lead its children to perish through negative examples. If you, as the questioner, have further inquiries or seek additional guidance on this matter, it would be beneficial for you to express your concerns and seek understanding through appropriate channels within the Church.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1147 | date:2023-05-13T21:54:38 ---
👉🏾 About the #Soul After #Death

Question፦ What is the Ethiopian Orthodox Church Teaching on the Soul After Death?

Answer፦ The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church teaches that after death, the soul and body separate. The soul continues to exist in an abstract form, while the body is laid to rest in the grave. It is believed that both the wicked and the righteous will experience this separation, but their ultimate fate differs.

According to the Orthodox doctrine, those who have committed evil deeds will go to hell, while those who have done good deeds will go to heaven. The criteria for entering heaven are based on the teachings of Matthew chapter 25, where Jesus speaks of acts of kindness such as giving bread and drink to the needy. It is believed that the righteous, who have demonstrated virtuous behavior in their earthly lives, will be rewarded with eternal life in heaven.

The concept of the afterlife in the kingdom of heaven is described as a state free from hunger, thirst, fatigue, envy, and racism. It is a realm where worldly limitations and transient nature cease to exist. The Church teaches that this eternal life is obtained through the resurrection, and it emphasizes that believers will not die but will be transformed.

The example of Christ's resurrection serves as a model for believers. Jesus, after being buried and guarded by soldiers, rose without the need for someone to open the grave or release Him. Similarly, the Church teaches that believers will be resurrected by the authority of Jesus Christ. It is believed that regardless of the circumstances of death, whether through burial or non-burial, all individuals will ultimately rise again when Christ returns.

The teaching of St. Paul provides further insight into the understanding of resurrection. He used the analogy of planting seeds to illustrate that just as grains sown in various conditions will ultimately grow, so too will individuals rise in accordance with their deeds. The wicked will rise with their sinful deeds, while the righteous will rise with their righteous deeds.

In summary, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church affirms the existence of life after death. It teaches that the soul and body separate at the time of death, and while the body is laid to rest in the grave, the soul continues to exist. The ultimate fate of individuals is determined by their actions in life, with the wicked facing hell and the righteous attaining eternal life in heaven. The Church emphasizes the importance of resurrection, drawing inspiration from the example of Christ's resurrection, and teaches that believers will be transformed and enter into a state free from worldly limitations in the kingdom of heaven.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1155 | date:2023-05-15T21:55:38 ---
👉🏾 About #peace and equality in #society 

👉 Question፦ Why is it difficult for people to live together in peace and see each other as equals? 

Answer፦ In Orthodox Christianity, the belief is that every person is created in the image and likeness of God. This fundamental teaching highlights the inherent value and dignity of every individual, emphasizing the importance of living together in peace and treating each other as equals. It raises the question: If we are all created as holy beings in the image of God, why is it so difficult for us to coexist harmoniously?

One of the underlying challenges lies in the deviation from our natural identity. In today's era, where various ideologies and beliefs abound, there are conflicting views on the origin and nature of humanity. While Orthodox Christianity affirms that humans are God's handiwork, some other perspectives propose alternative explanations, such as humans descending from apes. These divergent beliefs create a disconnect and contribute to conflicts among individuals, as they fail to recognize the shared foundation of our creation.

When we distance ourselves from our natural identity and disregard the fact that we are made in the image of God, we deviate from the correct understanding of our purpose and nature. God has taught us to love, respect, and refrain from harming one another. However, when individuals forget their divine origin, their behavior and mindset become distorted, leading to actions that contradict the principles of love and unity.

When we fail to acknowledge the inherent value of others and view them as equals, it stems from a lack of trust. This lack of trust is often fueled by the desire for honor, seeking personal recognition and avoiding any perception of inferiority. However, a person who is created in the image of God should not harbor such thoughts or engage in such behavior. It is important to remember that the purpose of our creation is not to exalt ourselves and seek superiority, but rather to glorify God's name and inherit His Kingdom.

The absence of trust gives rise to a pursuit of glory, vengeance, fame, and pride. It causes people to lose sight of their inherent equality and disrupts the bond between individuals. Love, which should be the foundation of our relationships, becomes scarce, and people find it difficult to trust one another equally. In the Orthodox Christian perspective, God's love transcends boundaries of race and language. As believers, we are called to adopt a Christian worldview that recognizes the equality of all people, for Christ died for each and every one of us.

The solution lies in embracing the Christian faith and cultivating a Christian mindset. To see everyone as equals, we need to realize that we all belong to God and that we are united before Him. By adopting an Orthodox perspective, which encompasses the teachings of Christ, we can overcome the barriers of distrust and perceive one another with the eyes of love and equality. This includes loving ourselves, loving our enemies, blessing those who curse us, doing good to those who harm us, and loving those who hate us, as Christ Himself taught.

Therefore, the key to living together in peace and seeing each other as equals is to follow Christ and embody His teachings. By recognizing the sacrificial love of Christ, who offered His holy body and precious blood for all humanity, we come to understand that His love extends to everyone. As Orthodox Christians, we strive to emulate His example and perceive all individuals as one, irrespective of their differences. May the grace of the Good Healer guide us in obeying His commandments and working towards our salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1160 | date:2023-05-16T21:51:53 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the status of the #world

Question፦ Why is the world the way it is today?

Answer፦ The state of the world today can be attributed to a combination of human disobedience and forgetting the purpose for which we were created. The world encompasses not only the physical realm but also the people and their nature within it.

In the Bible, we are instructed not to love the world in the sense of embracing its sinful aspects such as theft, adultery, and lying. However, we are also reminded that God loved the world, referring to His love for humanity. In the teachings of the Church Fathers, the term "world" is often used to denote the people living in the world, including sinners, whom God desires to save.
When the Church Fathers used parables, they often referred to the owner of a house as a way to explain concepts. Similarly, God loved the inhabitants of the world, including sinners, and sought to save them. However, when individuals deviate from doing good and engage in actions that distance them from God, chaos and separation from His grace ensue. Examples of such actions include engaging in homosexual behavior, worshipping evil spirits, and other forms of moral decay.

The root cause of this state of affairs lies in humanity's forgetfulness of its divine purpose. Mankind was created to reflect and emulate God's image and likeness, and our purpose is to praise Him and inherit His kingdom. However, humanity, weakened by its inherent limitations, deviated from its intended path. Humans were created with the potential to be like the holy angels, to exist in a state of communion with God. Yet, through disobedience, humans erred and lost their rightful place. Consequently, they became wandering refugees, estranged from God's grace, and inclined toward embracing evil rather than goodness.

When humans were initially created, they were not destined for pain and suffering. Instead, mankind brought about these hardships through its own actions. In response, God, in His infinite love, took on human form, experienced death, and rose from the dead to redeem and elevate humanity. Despite God's sacrificial act, there remain individuals who refuse to acknowledge the path that leads to God, falling into sin and aligning themselves with evil. Many people disregard the instructions given to us and engage in what they have been cautioned against.

Adam, the progenitor of humanity, lived in harmony for seven years by faithfully adhering to God's commands. However, after that time, he succumbed to temptation, committing the act he was forbidden from doing. As a consequence, he became a wanderer, losing his place alongside God and in paradise. Adam's transgression introduced scandal and discord into the world. Nevertheless, Adam repented for his mistake and reconciled with God. As St. Paul emphasized in his letter to the Romans (5:10), "While we were God's enemies, he forgave us through the death of his Son." The underlying reason for all these afflictions is humanity's separation from God.

However, despite humanity's inclination to stray from purity and holiness, there is always an opportunity for repentance. The Orthodox tradition teaches that through repentance, one can bridge the gap and restore their relationship with God. St. John the Baptist, known as the Forerunner, proclaimed, "It is better to raise a person who has fallen into sin by means of repentance than to raise the dead." This highlights the transformative power of repentance, which enables us to live in communion with God once again.

In summary, the current state of the world can be attributed to humanity's forgetfulness of its purpose and disobedience to God's commandments. Yet, despite our waywardness, God's love and desire for our salvation remain constant.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1165 | date:2023-05-17T21:39:59 ---


--- id:1166 | date:2023-05-17T21:40:08 ---
👉🏾 About #frustration, #anger and #obedience 

Question፦ I easily get very angry and frustrated, especially when someone gives me orders, and I really want to get rid of this behavior but I can't. What should I do?

Answer፦ May the grace and blessings of our Lord Jesus Christ be upon you as you seek guidance in overcoming anger and frustration. Your desire to eliminate these behaviors is commendable. 

To address the issue of anger, we must first understand its root causes. Often, anger stems from our own self-will, our resistance to submitting to the will of others. You mentioned that you experience anger when someone gives you orders. This suggests a lack of appreciation for the value and benefits of obedience.

In the lives of the holy monks, we find exemplary humility and obedience. These spiritual fathers would rise in the night to chop wood and fetch water without anyone commanding them to do so. They understood that in obeying, they could transcend their own desires and draw closer to God. Through obedience, sin can be avoided, for even Christ Himself came to serve and obey for our sake.

Reflect upon the commandment given in the book of Exodus: "Honor your mother and father, obey your mother and father, that your days may be long on earth." The importance of obedience is clearly emphasized here. Our Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, exemplified humility and obedience to an extraordinary degree. He washed the feet of His disciples, taking on the role of a servant, teaching them the significance of humility.

Indeed, if our Lord, who is God incarnate, washes our feet, then it is our duty to obey and humble ourselves before Him. When we recognize the immense value of obedience, our frustration and anger dissipate. Christ defeated the devil through humility and obedience, triumphing over disobedience and pride. Therefore, by embracing obedience and humility, we align ourselves with the victory of Christ.

If past negative experiences contribute to your frustration and anger, you can gradually overcome them. Through purposeful reflection, discern the advantages and disadvantages of your behavior. Remember that St. Paul reminds us, "I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength." With faith, nothing is impossible.

Throughout history, countless believers who made God their strength, shield, and refuge have witnessed the limitless possibilities granted by God. Our ancestors traveled on the seas, Abune Argawi rode on a dragon, Abune Samuel was carried by a lion, and the Prophet Elijah ascended to the heavens. These remarkable occurrences demonstrate that with God, all things are possible for those who truly believe.

In your pursuit of overcoming anger and frustration, seek the intercession of the saints who have mastered these virtues. Invoke the prayers of St. John Chrysostom himself, for his teachings and writings provide profound insights into the spiritual life.

Embrace prayer, repentance, and the sacramental life of the Church. Frequent reception of the Holy Eucharist and sincere confession can provide you with the strength and grace needed to transform your heart and conquer anger. Cultivate virtues such as patience, kindness, and self-control, which counteract anger and foster inner peace.

Remember, this transformative journey requires perseverance and a steadfast commitment to God's will. Trust in His guidance, for He desires your spiritual growth and will grant you the strength to overcome these challenges. Surrender your anger and frustrations to Him, and allow His divine love to heal your heart.

May the Holy Spirit grant you wisdom, strength, and peace as you embark on this transformative path. Through obedience, humility, and unwavering faith, you will discover the freedom that comes from conquering anger and embracing the virtues of Christ.

May God bless you all. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1174 | date:2023-05-18T22:24:50 ---


--- id:1175 | date:2023-05-18T22:27:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Yared 

Beloved brethren in Christ, may the grace and peace of God be upon you all. Today, we gather together to commemorate and celebrate the life and legacy of the esteemed Saint Yared of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Let us delve into the profound teachings and experiences of this great scholar and draw valuable lessons for our own spiritual journey.

Born in the year 505 A.D., near the ancient city of Axum, Saint Yared's upbringing was marked by an early struggle to grasp education. As a young child, he faced difficulties in understanding his studies, which left him disheartened. His mind, however, was captivated by the love for the Virgin Mary and her divine Son. One fateful day, his teacher remarked that he lacked color, insinuating his inability to comprehend the lessons. When tested, young Yared failed to respond and was consequently beaten.

The pain of the punishment deeply affected him, prompting Saint Yared to distance himself from his teacher. Exhausted, he sought refuge in the Mai Kirah area and, in his weariness, received a divine revelation from God. The Lord taught him the importance of perseverance and unwavering effort. Encouraged by this divine guidance, Saint Yared returned to his teacher, sought forgiveness, and resumed his education with renewed determination. He diligently applied himself to his studies and devoted himself to prayer, seeking communion with God.

In His infinite mercy, God blessed Saint Yared with a profound spiritual experience through the intercession of the Virgin Mary. The mysteries that had previously eluded him were unveiled, and he received divine insights and understanding. During his prayers, when heavenly hyms had not yet been revealed, three angels, in the form of birds, appeared before him and spoke to him, granting him their divine counsel.

Reinvigorated by this encounter, Saint Yared returned to the earthly realm, filled with inspiration and gratitude. He offered his thanksgiving in Axum Zion, where the people and the king marveled at the depth and beauty of his spiritual compositions. Saint Yared served diligently in Axum and Debre Damo, ascending to higher spiritual heights with each passing day. Eventually, he left his homeland, aspiring to join the company of the Virgin Mary and the heavenly host.

Throughout the remainder of his life, Saint Yared authored five significant books, leaving a profound legacy for future generations. He established centers of learning and spiritual instruction in Tana Kirkos, Zur Amba, and other locations, where he nurtured and mentored numerous disciples. Saint Yared's contributions to Ethiopian Orthodox Church music are characterized by three distinct types of songs: Geez, Ezl, and Ararai.

The Geez songs, meaning "found first," represent liberation, reminding us of the freedom we find in Christ. The Ezl songs, comprising thirty melodies sung in conjunction with Geez or Tazlo Ezl, inspire fortitude and endurance in the face of trials. Lastly, the Ararai songs, characterized by a melancholic and tender melody, represent the Holy Spirit, who comforts and emboldens believers.
Within Saint Yared's musical compositions, we encounter various symbols that add depth and richness to the musical expression. The "Difat" (ድፋት) symbolizes the descent of Christ from heaven, encouraging us to humbly submit to God's will. The "Hidet" (ሂደት) symbol, exemplified by the Lord's earthly ministry, urges us to continue our journey without hindrance, following in His footsteps.
Furthermore, the "Kinat" (ቅናት) symbol instructs us to lift our heads and proclaim the truth boldly, just as Christ did when confronted by His accusers. The "Yizet" (ይዘት) symbol, observed when a song is read swiftly, reminds us of the Lord's arrest by the Jews. The "Kurt" (ቁርጥ) symbol calls for strength and resilience, likening it to Christ's decision to endure suffering for the redemption of humanity.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1176 | date:2023-05-18T22:30:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

We also encounter the "Chiret" (ጭረት) symbol, which denotes a quick movement within the melody, reflecting the urgency and swiftness of God's action. The "Rikrik" (ርክርክ) symbol encourages us to lengthen our spiritual melodies, reminding us of the eternal sacrifice of Christ and the abundant grace He bestows upon us. Lastly, the "Deret" (ደረት) symbol, characterized by a powerful and resounding voice, signifies the Lord's ascension, urging us to exalt and proclaim His glory.

Let us now explore some of the notable compositions of Saint Yared. "Dgwa,"(ድጓ) a song offered on Sundays and annual holidays, encompasses the Eucharistic celebration and conveys the profound mystery and joy of the Holy Communion. "Tsome Dgwa" (ጾመ ድጓ) refers to a specific variant of the song sung during the period of Abiy Lent, incorporating verses from Zawadah-Hosanna.
Another remarkable composition is "Zimare," (ዝማሬ) which is performed after the Eucharist. "Mwaset"(መዋሥዕት) is a prayer for the departed, sung during funerals, while "Mieraf" (ምዕራፍ) is a composition sung in every chapter, symbolizing a place of rest. The works of Saint Yared are intricate and carry profound spiritual significance, inviting us to explore the depths of our faith.
Saint Yared's spiritual journey continued as he traveled extensively, leaving an indelible mark on the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Saint Yared with his disciples Sawira, Eskender and Menker, embarked on a journey to the north, Semen Berh. They carried their hymn books and lived in the monastery by teaching hymns in the northern monastery. 

In one particularly extraordinary incident, Saint Yared entered the Axum Zion Church and placed his hands upon the sacred coffin. With a voice filled with reverence and awe, he uttered these words: "You are holy, you are blessed, you are praised; You are blessed. You are exalted, you are the ladder of light." As he recited his composition called "Anketse Berhan," (አንቀጸ ብርሃን) while singing the Ezl song, he ascended about an arm's length towards the heavens. This miraculous event left the psalmists astounded, and Saint Yared imparted his final words of guidance and farewell before retreating to a hidden cave, disappearing from this earthly realm.

On the 11th of May, in the year 571 A.D., at the age of 66, Saint Yared departed from this temporal existence, leaving behind a spiritual legacy that continues to inspire and uplift the faithful even to this day.

Dear brethren, as we reflect upon the life of Saint Yared, let us draw valuable lessons for our own spiritual journey. His unwavering commitment to education and perseverance in the face of challenges remind us of the importance of continuous learning and growth in our faith. Saint Yared's profound spiritual experiences and revelations underscore the transformative power of prayer and communion with God.

Through his hymnodical compositions and symbols, Saint Yared invites us to elevate our worship, allowing our voices and melodies to be a conduit for spiritual expression. His compositions, rich with deep meaning and divine inspiration, serve as a reminder of the beauty and majesty of our Orthodox tradition.

May we be inspired by the life and teachings of Saint Yared, remembering the importance of perseverance, unwavering faith, and an ardent pursuit of divine knowledge. Let us strive to cultivate a deep and vibrant spiritual life, expressing our devotion to God through worship and service. May Saint Yared's legacy continue to resonate within our hearts and guide us on our journey towards eternal communion with our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1179 | date:2023-05-19T21:41:36 ---


--- id:1180 | date:2023-05-19T21:41:36 ---


--- id:1181 | date:2023-05-19T21:41:36 ---


--- id:1182 | date:2023-05-19T21:45:18 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #fear 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, grace and peace be with you all. Today, we bring you a profound lesson on the topic of fear—a lesson that can transform your relationship with God and grant you eternal value. As we delve into this teaching, let us remember the words of the Apostle Paul, who declared, "For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind" (2 Timothy 1:7).

Fear, my beloved, is a powerful force that often keeps us away from experiencing the fullness of God's love and presence in our lives. It is an insidious barrier that seeks to separate us from the divine truths and promises that are freely bestowed upon us. It is fear that instills doubt within us, casting shadows of uncertainty and hesitancy upon the path we tread.

In the scriptures, we encounter stories of faithful individuals who faced fear head-on, triumphing over its grip and emerging as beacons of unwavering devotion. Mary Magdalene, a woman of great faith, stood fearless before the armed Roman soldiers guarding the tomb of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. While others cowered in fear, she became the first witness to the glorious resurrection (Matthew 28:1-10).

Similarly, we learn of the three young boys who defied the powerful king Nebuchadnezzar. They refused to bow down to the image erected by the king, even when threatened with the fiery furnace. Their unwavering faith in God shielded them from the scorching flames, as the angel of the Lord came to their rescue (Daniel 3:1-30).

Saint George, known for his courageous spirit, fearlessly proclaimed his allegiance to God, even in the face of persecution. Presented with a millstone to grind a blade for his execution, he persevered, standing as a testament to his unyielding faith. His steadfastness transformed the heart of King Dudianus, who, in shame and fear, bore witness to God's divinity.

Consider the apostle John, who, when others succumbed to fear and fled, remained steadfast, accompanying Jesus to Calvary (John 19:26). In times of ease and joy, many profess their faith, but it is during times of trial and tribulation that true followers are revealed. Christ, burdened with the weight of the cross, found no one to comfort Him as He stumbled and fell along the arduous path.

Therefore, we implore you, our dear members, to cast off the shackles of fear and embrace the unwavering trust that should define our relationship with the Almighty. Let not your hearts be troubled by the challenges and uncertainties that surround us. We have been entrusted with the divine task of bearing witness to the Word of God without fear or hesitation. Embrace this calling, for it is worthy of the Lord Himself.

Take solace in the example of Aaron, the brother of Prophet Moses. Faced with the demands of a fearful people, he succumbed to their desires, fashioning a golden calf as an object of worship (Exodus 32:1-35). The fear that gripped Aaron caused him to stray from the path of righteousness, leading the Israelites astray. It is this kind of fear, born of doubt and insecurity, that we must eradicate from our hearts.

Even the apostles, in their weakness, succumbed to fear. They fled, discarding their garments, when confronted with the imminent arrest of Jesus. Fear led Peter to deny his Lord three times (Mark 14:50-52, 86-91). However, in the temporary nature of their fear, there arose an opportunity for repentance and restoration.

Let us, therefore, exercise caution, my brethren, so as not to allow this fleeting fear to become a hindrance to our repentance. May we not be deceived into believing that sin can be justified or excused by the passing fears of the present moment. Instead, let us cultivate a fear that is rooted in reverence for God, a fear that fuels our endurance and propels us towards salvation.

(Continues)  👇

--- id:1183 | date:2023-05-19T21:49:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

Let us turn our attention to the remarkable story of Saint Sosna—a woman falsely accused of adultery and sentenced to death by stoning. In the face of imminent peril, she fearlessly declared, "It is better for me to be sentenced to death than to be punished by God for committing this sin." Her steadfastness and unwavering faith invoked divine intervention, as God sent Daniel and His archangel, Saint Michael, to save her from her accusers.

In closing, our beloved members, we beseech you to cast off the garment of fear that impedes your journey towards God. Embrace the call to wholehearted devotion and unwavering trust. Remember that fear cannot conquer the human soul, for the soul's ultimate fate rests solely in the hands of the Divine.

Let your faith be a testament to the power and love of our Lord, Jesus Christ. For it is He who proclaims, "Be of good cheer, I have overcome the world" (John 16:33). In this knowledge, we find the strength to conquer fear, to embrace our divine calling, and to inherit the eternal blessings that await us.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1186 | date:2023-05-20T22:16:02 ---
👉🏾 Clarification of a #bible #verse 

👉 Question:" [Acts 7 : 6 - 7]

6. But God spoke in this way: that his descendants would dwell in a foreign land,  and that they would bring them into bondage and oppress them four hundred years.

7. ‘And the nation to whom they will be in bondage I will judge,’ said God, ‘and after that they shall come out and serve Me in this place.’

 Genesis 15 : 12 - 14
12. Now when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and behold, horror and great darkness fell upon him.

13. Then He said to Abram: “Know certainly that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs, and will serve them, and they will afflict them four hundred years.

14. And also the nation whom they serve I will judge; afterward they shall come out with great possessions.

Bless me my father ,..
Why 400 years and which nation was to be judged?"

Answer: Dear brethren, in addressing the question posed, let us delve into the profound teachings of the Bible, drawing from the Acts of the Apostles and the book of Genesis. These sacred scriptures contain the word of God and provide insights into His divine plan, as revealed to our revered forefather Abraham.

To fully grasp the significance of this passage, we must first recognize the extraordinary relationship between God and Abraham. The Old Testament attests to the multitude of times God communicated with the Prophet Moses, estimating around five hundred and seventy occasions. Yet, it is Abraham who holds a unique position as God's cherished friend, for the Lord Himself proclaimed, "I do not have a friend like Abraham on earth."

Even today, in the New Testament, we invoke the covenant established with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, beseeching their intercession for reconciliation with God and seeking His forgiveness. Abraham stands as the cornerstone, for without him, neither Isaac nor Jacob would have existed. They are referred to as "the fathers," but it is Abraham who lays the foundation for their lineage and their significance in God's plan.

Now, turning to the specific passage in question, we find a direct address to Abraham regarding his descendants. God speaks of their future plight, foretelling their sojourn in a foreign land and their subjugation and oppression for a period of four hundred years. This divine pronouncement is explicitly recorded in both the Acts of the Apostles and the book of Genesis.

During those four centuries, the children of Jacob, later known as the Israelites, endured the hardships of slavery and lived under the yoke of tyranny. God's promise to Abraham encompasses not only their earthly sufferings but also holds the promise of hope for all nations and peoples. Through Jesus Christ, born of Abraham's seed, salvation would be offered to all, unifying diverse peoples and redeeming their lives.

The Egyptians, as revealed in the Acts of the Apostles, would exercise dominion over the Israelites for four hundred years. God's words foretold that He would execute judgment upon the nation that oppressed His chosen people. Consequently, the Israelites would be liberated from their bondage and return to Canaan to worship and serve God in the land of their inheritance.

Turning our attention to Genesis 15 in the Torah, we encounter further details concerning the fulfillment of God's promises. At the time, Joseph held a position of high esteem as an esteemed counselor in the court of the Egyptian Pharaoh. The Pharaoh revered Joseph and granted him privileges, resulting in favorable treatment for the Israelites during this period.

However, when a new Pharaoh ascended the throne, ignorant of Joseph's legacy, the Israelites found themselves subjected to the burdensome weight of oppression. Their existence in Egypt, spanning four hundred and thirty years, was marked by hardship and servitude.

(Continues)👇

--- id:1187 | date:2023-05-20T22:25:42 ---
(Continued) 👆

The Israelites' deliverance from bondage and the rituals associated with their liberation serve as profound foreshadowings of Christ's sacrificial offering on Calvary in the New Testament. They point to the ultimate sacrifice of Christ Himself, offered for our salvation. May we embrace and spread this transformative message to all, recognizing the immense grace bestowed upon us.

Let us give thanks and praise to the God of the saints, who mercifully guides us on our spiritual journey. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1190 | date:2023-05-21T23:05:57 ---


--- id:1191 | date:2023-05-21T23:05:57 ---


--- id:1192 | date:2023-05-21T23:05:57 ---


--- id:1193 | date:2023-05-21T23:06:09 ---
👉🏾 About #repentance, #confessin, #giving #up and #hope 

How to overcome repeated sin and discouragement?

👉🏾Question: How does one overcome feelings of defeat and discouragement when falling into the same sin continually?
How to accept God's love and grace and not give up / lose hope with struggles that come with my journey with God? 
I tend to fall short of the goals I set for myself in spiritual life and the discouragement / feeling depressed about that holds me back from making progress. 

Thank you and May God bless your service! 

👉 Answer: This is a very important question because a lot of people confess their sins many times and go back to it many times. The main cause of this is not knowing what sin is and not understanding the depths of it's consequences. 

If a person confess their sins without understand what sin is, they will most likely fall back into it. If a person confesses their sins without understanding the benefits of repentance, it will be very hard for them to come back to repentance.

Hence we first need to learn about sin, it's consequences and the benefits of repentance. We need to learn from people that have fallen into sin, we need to know that sin separates us from God, sin deprives us from peace, sin brings curses to our lives, sin is the worst thing one can do. 

People who have fallen into sin have lost God, lost blessings, lost peace, lost life and can't even get alone with themselves. That is why Adam and Eve had a hard time living together after they fell into sin. Adam had asked Eve to get away from him, to depart form him accusing her to be the reason of his fall. People who have fallen into sin can't live with others nor be comfortable in their own skin. That is why Judas of Iscariot, who sold our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ with $30 thought that he was doing good for himself, that he would live but he couldn't. He threw away the money, hanged himself up on a tree and died after suffering for 40 days. Hence we need to understand that people trapped in sin can't live with God, with others nor with themselves. This, we have to believe before confessing. 

One needs to understand the depths of sin's consequences, and also understand the benefits of repentance. We need to learn from people who changed their lives and were healed through repentance. It is only then that we will have not repeatedly fall back to sin. 

We need to believe that everything is possible with God and nothing without Him. On Matthew 21:21, our Lord tells us "if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what was done to the fig tree, but also if you say to this mountain, ‘Be removed and be cast into the sea,’ it will be done." Hence why do we give up? We are winners in Christ, we fall and we get back up but we should never give up, why do we give up? Are we not the ones He created in His own image? Are we not the ones whom He appointed as rulers over creatures? It is us that He has delivered from the bondage of the devil by becoming one of us, it is for us that He has given his Holy Blood and Holy Flesh. It is for us that is given the interception of the apostles, the prophets, the angels, the saints, the virgins, the monks, our Lady Virgin Mary and others. Hence how can we give up? It is for us that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ established the mystery of Repentance so we can be reconciled with Him if we fall. Hence we do not give up. The holy water, the cross, the priests, the gospel, the prayer books, the advisors, the teachers, the fasts, prostration and countless more are ours. Hence how can we give up? We don't!

(To be continued) 👇

--- id:1194 | date:2023-05-21T23:06:09 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

The biggest and most gravious temptation of the devil is to make us give up. But we Christians never give up. Let us recall a story of a monk: There was a father who repeatedly sinned and repeatedly confessed. Then the devil said to him: "Are you not ashamed? Everyday you sin and everyday you confess it, you go to your spiritual father and confess the sin knowing you will fall tomorrow as well." Then this father said to him: "You that have no repentance, you that do not wish to be reconciled with God, you be ashamed but how can I be ashamed since repentance was established for me". Truly, repentance was established for us so we shouldn't give up.

The devil makes sin seem trivial for those who haven't previously fallen into it by showing them people who have fallen into sin and saying: "what consequences did they have to face for their sins? Your sins are nothing compared to their sins, you have not done anything wrong" Then he teaches us to sin step by step making us immune and ignorant to the consequences of it.

Then once we have fallen deep into it, he says: "Look at you, do you think God is going to forgive you? Are you not ashamed to approach God with all these sins? Are you not ashamed to go to a prist and admit to all these sins? You shameful being!" To make us think that God doesn't forgive, painting him as cruel. 

Hence we should understand that this is the devil's trap and get up when we fall, never give up. We have the hope to inherit our Lord's Kingdom, which is eternal and absolute. Hence how can we give up? We don't! God died for us, it is for us that he gave his Holy Blood and his Holy Flesh, it is for us that he gave his mother the Virgin Mary. Hence we don't give up. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1196 | date:2023-05-22T21:46:01 ---
👉🏾 I have lots of challenges in #life. I hate my life, what should I do?

Question፦ Fathers, I am suffering a lot on this earth, what should I do? I pray every day so lack of prayer is not the reason.  3 days ago, I tried to commit suicide but couldn't. And even today, I'm not happy. The problem is:

1) I am divorced
2) I work a lot but have nothing
3) I don't get along with my family. Nobody likes me. I live in my mother's house with my kids.

Answer፦ Beloved child of God, we mpathize deeply with the suffering and pain you have endured on this earthly journey. It is in times like these that we must turn to our faith and seek solace in the wisdom and guidance of our Lord. Know that your struggles are not in vain, for God often uses trials to refine us and elevate us to greater heights of nobility and honor.

As human beings, we often fail to recognize the abundance of blessings that God bestows upon us. We become complacent and fail to work diligently to cultivate and nurture the gifts that have been entrusted to us. However, when faced with small challenges, we easily become disheartened and feel as if we are being consumed by fire, pierced by a knife, or plagued by misfortune. These hardships weigh heavily on our spirits, testing our inner strength in ways that seem unbearable.

Yet, remember the words of Scripture: "O Lord, deliver me from this snare, free me from the net in which I am entangled, and rescue me from the temptations that surround me." To shield us from these trials, we have been instructed to pray, "Lord, lead us not into temptation."

Though today may appear bleak and life may seem like an arduous journey, take heart, for we are alive in Christ forever. Though weariness may overwhelm us, our inner strength is far greater. Though we may be poor in material possessions, God, by His grace and divine will, will make us abundantly rich. He is the one who bestows honor upon us in countless ways, showering us with blessings beyond measure. This test that seems insurmountable is but a stepping stone to a future of joy and happiness.

Remember, God works in ways that surpass our understanding and imagination. His gifts are immeasurable and boundless, bestowed upon us generously. He may appear to be a judge, yet if He believes in us and loves us, He tests us with challenges that may seem insurmountable, but He knows we can overcome. 

To you, dear questioner, I beseech you, believe that this trial you are facing is a foundation and a bridge to a brighter tomorrow. Trust that God's plan for you encompasses things you cannot fathom or comprehend at this moment. Embrace the gift of faith and hold steadfast in the knowledge that God, in His infinite wisdom, is working in your life.

Regarding your sense of being unloved and rejected, do not perceive yourself as unlovable or despised by others. Love is a complex matter, and sometimes the reasons behind others' actions or emotions remain concealed. Do not hastily conclude that you are hated or cursed, for such thoughts only serve to empower Satan's influence in your life. Instead, seek the truth that lies beyond appearances and pray for understanding and reconciliation.

In your current circumstances, living in your mother's house with your children, it may be challenging to find peace and harmony within your family. However, I implore you, do not lose hope. Trust in God's providence and believe that He can heal and restore relationships. Many have experienced the mending of their lives through God's intervention, and I firmly believe the same can happen for you.

In your darkest hours and moments of sadness, turn to the Mother of God, the Blessed Virgin Mary. Entrust your troubles to her, for she is a source of comfort and strength. I have faith that she will intercede on your behalf and guide you through this storm. Please reach out to us at our address, for we are here to support you and walk alongside you on this journey of healing and restoration.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1197 | date:2023-05-22T21:54:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

Remember, our dear member, that your story has the potential to provide comfort and inspiration to others who may be facing similar trials.

Let us spread the lessons we learn from our own experiences so that they may serve as a beacon of hope for those in need.

May God bless you abundantly, grant you comfort and assurance within your home, and lead you to a path of reconciliation and redemption. Reach out to us, and together, we will strive to rebuild your family and your life with the guidance and grace of God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1198 | date:2023-05-23T21:32:50 ---


--- id:1199 | date:2023-05-23T21:33:56 ---
👉🏾 Advice about #marriage life

Question: It has been one year since I got married but I couldn't have physical intimacy with my wife, because she has no feelings at all, she feels great pain, we tried different solutions, advice, treatment, prayers, but we couldn't find a solution, what solution do you give us?

Answer: In facing such a challenging situation, we turn to the teachings of the Church and seek solace in our faith. What does the Church offer to the needy? Prayer. Our questioner has mentioned that they have already tried prayer, along with various solutions, advice, treatment, and yet they have not found a solution. As Christians, we believe in the power of prayer and in God's ability to heal, but we must also recognize that God's timing and plan may be different from our own.

When we approach prayer, it is important not to limit it to a fixed timeframe. God knows what we may not think, and He knows what we do not know. There may be something that will ultimately benefit us in ways we cannot yet comprehend. Our approach to prayer should not be focused solely on a predetermined date or outcome. It is essential to remember that everything is in God's hands.

If we set a specific date by which we expect to be saved or find a solution, and if that date passes without the desired outcome, it is not right for us to abandon our faith or lose hope. Instead, we should continue to seek God's guidance and intervention. By practicing the faith to the fullest, actively partaking from the Eucharist, We beseech God to make all things right. We have fulfilled our part, and if we grow weary and do not find an immediate solution, we must trust that we have done what we can.

It is crucial to understand that not all prayers are answered according to our desires or timeline. We must recognize that there are aspects beyond our control, and we have our part to play while God has His. Yet, even in situations where we do not understand the reasons behind our circumstances, we should accept God's will with joy. Ultimately, the solution lies in God Himself, and we should not lose sight of this truth.

During such challenges in life, it is not uncommon for people to offer help and solutions outside the teachings of the Church. However, we must remember that this is ultimately God's work. It is God's will for a husband and wife to be united and for them to be helpers to each other. It is not appropriate for anyone to intervene and suggest alternative solutions based on their own judgment. We must have faith in God's plan and trust that He will guide us through our difficulties.

Patience is a virtue we learn through our relationship with God. It is His will for us to come together in marriage, and beyond that, it is His will for us to remain united as one and potentially have children. We must not do anything that interferes with God's plan. We should trust that our actions will not harm our souls or bodies. We can draw inspiration from the story of Hannah and Joachim, who endured years of childlessness but remained steadfast in their faith. In their patience, God blessed them with a child who became the salvation of the entire world. Likewise, God worked a miraculous birth through the Virgin Mary, and He granted Elizabeth, who was old, a child who would baptize the Lord.

Therefore, dear member, your story is unique, and God has something in store for you that we may not yet comprehend. Perhaps it is a path towards holiness and sanctification. Have you considered this possibility? Remember the example of Demetrius and Princess Wine, who maintained their purity and holiness for forty-eight years, sleeping in the same bed, wearing the same clothes, and laying the same carpet. They trusted in God's plan and purpose. Who knows what God has prepared for you? We must contemplate this thought.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1200 | date:2023-05-23T21:36:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

Living in such circumstances for a year is undoubtedly challenging, but God has a timeline and a miracle that we do not yet know. It is crucial to wait patiently and to have faith that if it is in His divine plan, He will bring about the resolution. Reflect on the patience of Job, who endured immense suffering but remained steadfast in his trust in God. In the end, God visited him with His help and restored him. God is good, and He knows when to give, how to mend the broken, and how to lift the fallen. Therefore, if there is something prepared for us that we do not yet understand, we must wait patiently, for Christianity calls us to persevere and endure.

May God grant you strength, patience, and the wisdom to understand His plan in your life. Trust in His love and His perfect timing.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1201 | date:2023-05-24T22:17:05 ---


--- id:1202 | date:2023-05-24T22:17:05 ---


--- id:1203 | date:2023-05-24T22:17:05 ---


--- id:1204 | date:2023-05-24T22:20:36 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Ascension of our Lord 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, today is the day we celebrate the ascension of our Lord. The Ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ is a profound and glorious event that holds immense significance for our faith and salvation. As we delve into this topic, let us explore the teachings of the early Church Fathers and contemplate the deep theological truths revealed through the Scriptures.

Our Lord Jesus Christ, the divine Son, who became incarnate and took on our human nature, ascended to the right hand of the Father, as prophesied by King David. In Psalm 110:1, David declared, "God said to my Lord, 'Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet.'" This prophecy finds fulfillment in Jesus Christ, as the Epistle to the Hebrews affirms, "But when this priest [Jesus] had offered for all time one sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God" (Hebrews 10:12).

By sitting at the right hand of the Father, our Lord Jesus Christ demonstrates His divine nature and equality with the Father. It is crucial to understand that this exaltation does not imply any temporal or hierarchical subordination within the Trinity. Rather, it speaks to the profound mystery of the Incarnation, wherein the Son, while on Earth, willingly submitted Himself to the limitations of our human nature. Consequently, when Scripture speaks of Christ sitting at the right hand of the Father, it emphasizes His return to His former glory, without any separation from His divinity.

The Incarnation of Christ signifies that the Word, without diminishing His fullness, assumed a human body and soul from the Holy Virgin Mary for the sake of our salvation. Likewise, His Ascension proclaims that, without separating from the fully united body and soul, Christ ascended in glory for our benefit. In the 24th chapter of Luke's Gospel, the venerable Saint Cyril of Alexandria, a steadfast pillar of our faith, elucidates this truth: "After blessing his disciples, he ascended into heaven and sat in his Father's house, not only in His divinity but also in His unified body." Through His Incarnation and Ascension, Christ united our fallen nature with His divine glory, granting us the possibility of sharing in His heavenly kingdom.

The Ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ should not be viewed as a mere physical act of sitting and rising, as befitting our human experience. Instead, it symbolizes the glorification of our human nature, once marred by sin and distanced from God's grace. Our Lord, by uniting our nature with His divinity, bestowed incomprehensible honor upon us. Ephesians 2:6 captures this beautifully, declaring, "And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus."

In the death and resurrection of our Lord, He conquered the power of death, wiping away the consequences of sin. Through His Ascension, our human nature, which was judged and condemned, is now elevated to sit in the presence of the Father. As Saint John the Baptist expounded, Christ offered His body as a sacrifice, serving as our High Priest, presenting Himself to the Father with His body and blood. The Father, in admiration, declared, "Sit at my right hand." The earth that we once were, destined to return to dust, now finds itself exalted beyond measure. Christ surpassed the ranks of angels, ascended above the cherubim, and attained a throne higher than the archangels. His ascent extended beyond mere elevation; it led Him to the throne of His eternal kingdom, where He reigns in glory.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1205 | date:2023-05-24T22:22:21 ---
(Continued) 👆

Indeed, the Ascension of our Lord was foretold by the prophets. The Psalms proclaim, "You have taken captives and ascended" (Psalm 68:18) and "God has ascended amid shouts of joy, the Lord amid the sounding of trumpets" (Psalm 47:5). In the Holy Scriptures, our Lord Himself reveals, "In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you" (John 14:2). The evangelists and apostles also bear witness to the Ascension, recording that "after speaking to them, the Lord Jesus was taken up into heaven and he sat at the right hand of God" (Mark 16:19, Luke 24:51-52). As they watched, a cloud enveloped Him and received Him from their sight (Acts 1:9-11). Furthermore, the secret of imitating God is revealed in His glorious Ascension—He was incarnate, justified by the Spirit, seen by angels, preached to the Gentiles, believed in throughout the world, and ultimately ascended in majestic glory (1 Timothy 3:16).

The early Church Fathers, the custodians of our sacred tradition, expounded upon the Ascension of our Lord. Their teachings and exegesis illuminate the depths of this profound mystery. They bestowed upon us invaluable insights into the divine economy of salvation, helping us to grasp the significance of Christ's Ascension and its impact on our lives.

May the contemplation of our Lord's Ascension deepen our understanding of His divine nature and His salvific work. Let us rejoice in the glorification of our human nature through union with the divine. And as we eagerly anticipate His promised return, may we strive to imitate His virtues and partake in His heavenly kingdom. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1208 | date:2023-05-25T22:06:59 ---


--- id:1209 | date:2023-05-25T22:06:59 ---


--- id:1210 | date:2023-05-25T22:06:59 ---


--- id:1211 | date:2023-05-25T22:09:36 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Virtues of #Patience, #Humility, and #Contentment

In the depths of humanity's fallen state, when death entered the world, it did so through three grievous crimes: impatience, pride, and greed. Yet, through the grace of Christ, death was conquered by three great virtues, which we shall explore in depth. Drawing from the wisdom of the Orthodox tradition, we shall delve into the significance of patience, humility, and contentment, and their transformative power in the life of a believer.

Part 1: Impatience - Overcoming the Sinful Nature
Impatience, born from a restless spirit, is a formidable obstacle in the path of righteousness. As we reflect upon the events in the Garden of Eden, we witness the devastating consequences of haste. The serpent, the preacher of sin, whispered to Eve, stirring unease within her heart. Restlessness clouded her judgment, and she failed to investigate the serpent's deceitful words. Subsequently, Adam, who should have stood firm, was also swayed by impatience, leading both of them towards a tragic downfall.

Impatience continues to afflict humanity, as we often succumb to the allure of sin without considering the consequences. Yet, Christ, the second Adam, demonstrated the power of patience. He endured the mocking and scourging silently, willingly accepting the weight of our sins. By His patience, He astonished onlookers and conquered death itself. In imitating Christ's patience, we find the strength to endure, for salvation belongs to those who persevere till the end.

Part 2: Humility - Embracing Obedience and Discernment
Pride, the first sin, is a perilous temptation that ensnares even the noblest of creatures. It is the root of disobedience and rebellion against God's established order. In the Garden of Eden, this sin manifested itself when Adam and Eve disregarded the fear of God and broke His commandment. The devil himself, consumed by pride, had no opportunity for repentance, succumbing to eternal damnation.

To counteract this destructive pride, we must embrace humility and obedience. Our Lord Jesus Christ, the epitome of humility, willingly submitted Himself to the cross, even unto death, to redeem us from the consequences of our disobedience. He obediently accepted the weight of our sins, showcasing that obedience is the path to true life. Just as a child obeys their parent, even to the point of sacrifice, Christ demonstrated obedience to remove the death sentence imposed upon us by our disobedience. In imitating Christ's obedience, we restore the image of God within us and find our way back to eternal communion with Him.

Part 3: Contentment - Overcoming Greed and Embracing Generosity
Greed, the insidious desire for more, separates us from the company of God and His heavenly angels. It distorts our perception, causing us to covet what is forbidden or unnecessary. In the Garden, Adam and Eve beheld the tree and its fruit, considering it beautiful and desirable only after the serpent planted the seed of greed within them.

Greed leads us down a treacherous path, where the devil entices us with false promises and desires. When we fail to find contentment in the grace bestowed upon us, death lurks nearby, ready to claim our lives. Yet, our Lord Jesus Christ, the Second Adam, offers a powerful antidote. He, who did not even desire His own life, willingly sacrificed Himself for others. Even in death, He gave generously, making amends for the wrongs committed by greed. Our first father rushed to acquire what he lacked, driven by covetousness, while our second father willingly gave

 His own wealth, even His flesh and blood, for our salvation. Through Christ, we learn to replace greed with generosity, finding fulfillment in selflessness and gratitude.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1212 | date:2023-05-25T22:12:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

In summary, the Orthodox perspective on patience, humility, and contentment reveals profound truths about the human condition and our path to salvation. By cultivating patience, we overcome the restlessness that leads to sin. Through humility, we embrace obedience and discern God's will. And by rejecting greed and embracing contentment, we discover the transformative power of generosity. Let us strive to embody these virtues in our lives, drawing closer to Christ and experiencing the fullness of His grace.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1214 | date:2023-05-26T22:13:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Atheists

Dear members of John's Repentance service, today we send you a writing about Atheism from a great Russian Orthodox father as this is a major problem the western world is dealing with today. 

<<< I've Never Met an Atheist!

The young man announced at the beginning of a college class that he was an atheist. I'd been invited as a guest lecturer, and had opened the talk with the observation that everyone has a nous that hungers for God. This young man took exception, declaring there was no God, and furthermore stating that he certainly did not have hunger for a relationship with anything that could be defined as a god.

I asked him to define the god he'd chosen to deny, and after hearing his definition, I declared that I agreed with him. I, too, did not believe in such a god. The average understanding of just who God is, has largely been based on a concept that is not in sync with the biblical description of God, nor the teachings of the historic Church. Furthermore, the false science that is the basis for the denial of God's involvement in creation, and in the life of our world, has come about due, in large part, to this very misconception of just who God is, to begin with.

The God that has been revealed in the holy scriptures, and the God we worship within the life of the Church, is a God that so loved us, that He took on our human flesh, that He might experience our hunger, our thirst, our sorrow, our pain, and even our joy. He is not a remote God, incapable of understanding His creation, but, rather, a God who chose to join Himself to His creation, and invite us into communion with Him. We have been invited to share in His divinity, and, through the gift of eternal life, to dwell with Him forever.

Our God is present everywhere, and is Light in a darkened universe. Everything that is good, is from God, for He is love, and has invited us into communion within His love. His light shines upon us, even when we choose to live in darkness, for He is everywhere present, and fills all things. Our disbelief in no way cancels out His presence, nor does our disbelief in any way negate the fact that He is God.

The person who declares himself an atheist, is in fact one who avoids the obvious. Refusing to believe in God's existence in no way cancels out the reality that God indeed does exist. Just as refusing to believe the world is round because it appears flat from our perspective, or denying the existence of molecules because we can't see them, the denial of God's existence emanates from a narrow focus on self.

That one would deny the existence of God, yet accept the theories of quantum physics, which are based on an unprovable noetic science, is proof that we, as a species, have fallen far from that which our Creator God had intended, having become, in our pride, gods unto ourselves. >>>

Source: Abbot Tryphon from the Russian Orthodox Church 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1216 | date:2023-05-27T22:04:47 ---


--- id:1217 | date:2023-05-27T22:04:47 ---


--- id:1218 | date:2023-05-27T22:04:47 ---


--- id:1219 | date:2023-05-27T22:04:56 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, as you may be aware of, our telegram page is primarily for people older than 16 years of age. However, this is big limitation because kids usually have the most and the best questions. Hence starting this week, we will be hosting live Q&A sessions for kids. This will be at 6pm EST every Sunday and it will mainly be lead by volunteer deacons that are capable of answering children's questions and discussing various Church topics with them. And so we ask you to spread the word so many people can take advantage of this program. It will be via Google meet and the link will be the same for every meeting: https://meet.google.com/qeu-moqk-jux

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1222 | date:2023-05-28T22:13:25 ---


--- id:1223 | date:2023-05-28T22:13:25 ---


--- id:1224 | date:2023-05-28T22:13:25 ---


--- id:1225 | date:2023-05-28T22:13:25 ---


--- id:1226 | date:2023-05-28T22:14:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Apparition of St. #Mary in 1968: A Divine Encounter

Beloved members of John's Repentance page, let us delve into the profound and awe-inspiring apparition of our beloved Lady, St. Mary, which occurred on this day in the blessed year of 1968. The accounts of this miraculous event bring forth valuable lessons and spiritual insights that will undoubtedly enrich our lives. Like the holy fathers before us, we must seek the guidance of God as we explore the splendor and significance of the apparition, imploring His divine assistance to shed light upon this extraordinary encounter with our beloved Mother.

The Prophecy and Significance of St. Mary:
In the sacred Psalms, the prophet David, God's chosen servant, foretold that both the nobles of heaven and the nations of the earth would beseech and swear to see the radiant face of our beloved Lady. Throughout history, every prophet and apostle has spoken of St. Mary, affirming her exalted position and the divine grace bestowed upon her. Let us, therefore, beseech the same God who aided them to grant us understanding and illumination in our exploration of this momentous event.

The Annual Festivals of St. Mary:
Our Lady, St. Mary, is honored throughout the year with various festivals and celebrations. Let us focus on the significant annual occasions that commemorate her extraordinary life. May 9th marks the anniversary of the Holy Virgin Mary's birth, followed by May 29th, when she manifested herself to both Gentiles and Christians. On June 28th, her divine Son descended to establish her abode, signifying a momentous day of celebration. Furthermore, August 22nd commemorates the day of her incarnation, while December 13th marks her entrance into the temple. On January 30th, we remember the day of our Lady's rest, and on February 24th, the promise of mercy and salvation was accepted. Let us honor these festivals with reverence and gratitude, as we partake in the richness of our faith.

The Power of Intercession:
Hannah and Jacob, who had experienced the heart-wrenching loss of a child, persevered in their faith, beseeching God with unwavering devotion. Their plea was answered, and the Virgin Mary, the mother of God, was given to them as a treasure beyond compare—a treasure that would alleviate not only their own poverty but also the poverty of the entire world.

The Virgin Mary's Role in Christianity:
Dear brethren, we must comprehend the immense significance of the Virgin Mary in our Christian faith. She is the Mother of God, above all creation and below the Creator Himself. Our Lord Jesus Christ promised her, during their exile in Egypt, that a church would be erected in her name on the very site where we stand today. The fulfillment of this prophecy is a testament to God's faithfulness and a symbol of the Virgin Mary's unparalleled intercession.

The Blessing and Grace of St. Mary:
When the Virgin Mary blesses us, dear brethren, it is not a mere utterance of goodwill or forgiveness. Rather, her blessings carry the power of divine grace, enriching our lives and bringing forth spiritual abundance. Although the Bible does not explicitly speak of her blessings, we acknowledge her as the vessel of God's grace and mercy. Just as she interceded for the wedding guests at Cana, turning water into wine, she intercedes for us, transforming our lives and granting us spiritual abundance.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1227 | date:2023-05-28T22:15:05 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

The Apparition of St. Mary in 1968:
In the year 1968, a divine event unfolded that would forever leave an indelible mark on the faithful. On May 29th, in a small village nestled in the hills, the Blessed Virgin Mary manifested herself to a group of believers and non-believers alike. Her appearance was accompanied by a radiant light and a sense of overwhelming peace and serenity.

Eyewitness accounts describe the awe-inspiring sight of the Blessed Virgin Mary, adorned in heavenly garments, her face radiant with divine love and compassion. She spoke words of comfort, guidance, and admonition, urging all who witnessed her to turn their hearts to God, to seek repentance, and to embrace love and unity among themselves.

The Impact of the Apparition:
The apparition of St. Mary in 1968 had a profound impact on the lives of those who witnessed it. Many experienced a deep spiritual awakening and were moved to embrace their faith with renewed fervor. The event served as a catalyst for personal transformation, inspiring individuals to seek reconciliation, forgiveness, and a deeper connection with God.

The apparition also had a ripple effect within the wider community. It fostered unity and harmony among different religious groups, as people from various backgrounds came together to witness and reflect upon the divine presence of St. Mary. The event served as a reminder of the universal message of love, compassion, and peace that transcends religious boundaries.

Lessons and Reflections:
Reflecting upon the apparition of St. Mary in 1968, we can draw several important lessons for our spiritual journey:

1. The Power of Divine Intervention: The apparition reminds us of the profound impact that divine intervention can have on our lives. It serves as a testament to the unfathomable love and compassion of God, who reaches out to His creation through the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary.

2. The Call to Repentance: St. Mary's message urged all who witnessed her to turn their hearts to God and seek repentance. It reminds us of the need for ongoing spiritual renewal, repentance for our shortcomings, and a commitment to leading a righteous life.

3. The Universal Message of Love and Unity: The apparition brought people from different religious backgrounds together, emphasizing the universal message of love, compassion, and unity that transcends religious divisions. It calls us to embrace the common values shared by all faith traditions and work towards fostering harmony and understanding among believers.

4. The Power of Prayer: The apparition reinforces the power of prayer and the intercessory role of St. Mary. It encourages us to turn to her with our petitions, knowing that she intercedes on our behalf before the throne of God.
—
Dear brethren, the apparition of St. Mary in 1968 was a divine encounter that touched the hearts and souls of those who witnessed it. It continues to inspire and guide us on our spiritual journey, reminding us of the profound love, grace, and intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary. As we commemorate this significant event, may we open our hearts to receive the blessings and guidance of St. Mary, and may her presence continue to illuminate our path towards God's eternal kingdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1233 | date:2023-05-30T23:47:19 ---


--- id:1234 | date:2023-05-30T23:47:25 ---
👉🏾 What is the basic purpose of #marriage? Is there a difference between secular marriage and a marriage conducted in church?

✍️Answer፦ The institution of marriage holds a deep significance in the Orthodox Church, reflecting the union of the bridegroom and the bride. It is regarded as a sacred mystery that is celebrated through a ceremony conducted in the church, accompanied by a sacrament that symbolizes the joining and oneness of the couple. In the words of Scripture, "A man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh" (Matthew 19:5). Thus, marriage is a profound mystery in which the couple commits to love and cherish each other exclusively, with the intention of starting a family, sharing their lives and possessions, and living together as long as God permits.

The purpose of marriage can be understood through three pillars: mutual support, procreation, and safeguarding against adultery. Firstly, marriage provides a framework for helping and supporting one another. Recognizing the words of God, "It is not good for man to be alone. Let us create a suitable helper for him" (Genesis 2:18), Orthodox teachings emphasize that marriage is a divine gift that assists individuals on their spiritual journey. At its core, marriage relies on genuine affection and love between spouses, where both partners prioritize the needs of their spouse, care for each other, and honor God through their commitment.

Secondly, marriage is seen as a means of continuing the generations and fulfilling the commandment to multiply. After blessing Adam and Eve in Paradise, God instructed them to "multiply and fill the earth and subdue it..." (Genesis 1:28). This divine blessing signifies God's approval of marriage and the union of Adam and Eve. In the Orthodox tradition, God's presence is invoked during the marriage ceremony, just as He was present during the union of Adam and Eve in Paradise. This demonstrates the significance of a legal marriage, solemnized in the holy church where Christ's body and blood are offered.

Lastly, marriage serves as a safeguard against the temptations of adultery. As the Apostle Paul advised, "Because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband" (1 Corinthians 7:2). By committing to a holy marriage, individuals avoid the perils of yielding to lustful desires outside the confines of a sacred bond. It is essential for those living a religious life to steer clear of adultery, and marriage provides a path to resist such temptations.

Thus, the primary goal of marriage is to walk together in righteousness, pursuing eternal life and inheriting the Kingdom of Heaven. Married life is understood as a spiritual journey, necessitating the initiation of the marriage covenant within the Christian framework of the Church. This sacramental aspect signifies the involvement of three parties: the couple and God. Without all three, a marriage cannot be considered complete. In the sacrament of marriage, the physical union of the couple mirrors the unity of Christ's body and the Church. As stated in the Holy Scriptures, "They will become one flesh" (Mark 10:8), the great mystery of physical and spiritual unity finds its fulfillment in the Holy Eucharist.

The reason for elevating marriage to the status of a sacrament within the Church lies in allowing the Lord Jesus Christ to be the head and center of the couple's spiritual journey. In the words of St. Paul, "This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the Church" (Ephesians 5:32). The sacramental aspect signifies the union between the divine and the physical, and it is through the visible service and the reception of invisible grace that this union is made possible. The Holy Communion, in particular, transforms the marriage into a new reality, where the couple becomes one flesh.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1235 | date:2023-05-30T23:49:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

In contrast, a secular marriage lacks the spiritual dimensions present in a sacramental marriage. In a secular system, the union may be regarded solely as a legal contract, devoid of the sacredness and blessings that come with celebrating Christ's presence. The profound mystery of the bridegroom and bride becoming one is not fully realized, so the couple misses out on the blessings and grace that could have been received through the sacramental marriage.

However, acknowledging that "My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge" (Hosea 4:6), those who unknowingly or knowingly entered into a secular marriage can repent and seek unity in the Holy Communion, commencing a righteous journey for the remainder of their days.

In summary, the purpose of marriage encompasses mutual support, procreation, and protection against adultery. The sacramental nature of marriage, conducted within the Church, signifies the union of the bridegroom and bride, mirroring the unity of Christ and the Church. The sacramental marriage, where the couple and God are active participants, enables the Lord Jesus Christ to be the focal point of their spiritual journey. In contrast, secular marriages lack the spiritual dimensions present in sacramental marriages and miss out on the blessings and grace bestowed upon couples who enter into a holy union.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1236 | date:2023-05-31T00:56:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

Our Lord then appeared and said, "My friend Kristos Samra, this man does not deserve mercy. I am the God who kills, saves, and forgives. However, because of your love, I will have mercy on him. Pray for him, Holy Christ, and bow down at my feet. Everything is possible for you." She begged him, and our Lord forgave the man for his sins through her prayer.

After this, when she removed the medicine that was buried from his head to his toes, his blood flowed like water from a canal, and his soul departed from his body to become one with the martyrs of the community.

God has given the Holy Christ Samira six wings. During her baptism, Moses took her right hand, and Elijah and John the Baptist brought the water of the Jordan River, in which the Lord was baptized, and poured it on her head. No one has been baptized in such a way since the baptism of our Lord. They prophesied that she would become the head of a monastery in a place called Gwangut, where she would have many followers and ascend to heaven.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1241 | date:2023-06-01T00:44:27 ---


--- id:1242 | date:2023-06-01T00:44:27 ---


--- id:1243 | date:2023-06-01T00:44:27 ---
👉🏾 About #marriage and the holy #Eucharist 

👉Question: Does marital status determine whether to receive Holy Communion? For example, if we are single, married, what if our partner is not willing? Or what should I do if my fiance refuses to marry me in the sacrament?

✍Answer: One of the sacrements of the New Testament is Christ's holy flesh and His precious blood. We have said that the special gift of the Holy Spirit that we have been blessed with since the birth of a boy on the 40th day and the birth of a girl on the 80th day is the food of eternal life. To separate from this is to die although we seem alive simply because we breath. Our body: If we lose  food for a few days or even for few hours for some people, it is definitely not possible to stay alive. This is one of the common weaknesses of the body where we lose our fleshly existence. Likewise, if the soul loses Christ's holy flesh and precious blood, it dies and has no life. It means that we have killed it. Therefore, in order to eat this eternal life, to drink that gives eternal life, we should learn what kind of system and what kind of spiritual preparation we should follow. We are commanded by God to live a Christian life, of which the Holy Eucharist is the foundation. Any teaching that keeps us away by threatening and exaggerating for other reasons is false teaching and should be avoided. 

Apostle St. Paul said that if we eat and drink the ultimate food of the soul without preparation and understanding, it will be a debt to us. This means that it is necessary to always have a life prepared for repentance and to accept those who are counselors in the affairs of our souls, the fathers of the church whom God has appointed as our servants and shepherds. In other words, we are commanded to always receive with repentance, so that we do not make this mistake that St. Paul wrote about (so that we do not receive without deserving or understanding this), but there is no occasion where we are commanded to depart from this mystery, not even for a single day.

Therefore, for those who are said to be before marriage, as we mentioned above, we should realize that we should continue to accept what we received in our childhood, that started from the time of Christianity,  until the end of our lives. But we should do this without committing any shame or sin as that is the only thing which keeps us away from the Holy Communion. Everyone knows what sin or shame is that keeps us away from the Holy Communion, even a child knows. There is no one who does not know the type of sin from the smallest to the highest level of sin. Murder, adultery, adultery, all these seeming sins can keep you away from the sacrament. But through repentant and reprimanded, you can continue the communion by repenting and being mentored and taught by their penitent father. 

Back to the question, it is to say that we should do this throughout our life, and it is not a matter of martial status. Both the male and female start participating in this sacrement at the time of their baptism and actively participate alone until they reach maturity age. After that, the man chooses someone who resembles him in his spiritual life and the woman chooses someone who resembles her in her spiritual life and they get married and continue with the Holy Communion together. Even those who are not married in the Holy Communion, without having this opportunity, come to repentance and they, too, can continue their holy purpose that they have abandoned. Because the Church has made a system for us, it has reconciliation for all from her creator.

To be continued 👇

--- id:1244 | date:2023-06-01T00:45:51 ---
(Continued part)👆👇.
 
In general, the sacrament does not depend on the state of marriage; After all, the Holy Church has never commanded us to stay away from the Holy Communion for a single day until marriage. This is an attitude that some people have brought by habit, or even counselors and teachers have been absorbed in the people's system, not God's system; and we need to understand that it is not the correct teaching of the Church. Besides, it is not an honor for us to continue to be a father of repentance for people living far from the Holy Communion, but a great shame. Why? The first and foremost task of a penitent father is to teach his penitent children, equip them for penance and Holy Communion, and watch over them to live steadfastly in this spiritual life. But as we can see what is happening in practice, does everyone who is a Christian receive the Holy flesh and the precious blood of Christ?  Not really.
 
On the other hand although it is not comparable with our faith, when we see other faith institutions around the world who claim to be in Christianity, even those who do not believe in partaking fekm His holy flesh and precious blood do not leave without receiving 'in rememberence' each time they come to their church, never. Our church, however, does not consider the Holy Communion as a memorial, and not do not take this mystery simply or boldly. Rather, we receive it believing that it is the real holy flesh and his noble blood that our Creator shed for us through all that suffering on Friday; and we accept it in the fear of God . This is Christian ethics. As Christian ethics, we correct our wrongdoing and accept it through a life of repentance. So, the only thing that may keeps us far from the Holy Communion before and during marriage is our own sin.

So the answer to the question is that if there is a time when we are different from Holy Communion, the biggest thing is our own reason. Thi may be, either we didn't get real lesson of the Orthodox Church; Or that we are not willing to repent for what we committed a sin; Or that we have not decided to stop that sin. But, in general, there is no time to deprive us the Holy Communion except in this way.

(to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1246 | date:2023-06-02T00:45:25 ---


--- id:1247 | date:2023-06-02T00:45:25 ---


--- id:1248 | date:2023-06-02T00:46:07 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy Family's entrance into Egypt

In this lesson, we will explore the remarkable journey of the Holy Family's entrance into Egypt, a period marked by persecution, suffering, and divine intervention. The experiences of the Virgin Mary, Joseph, and their son Jesus provide valuable lessons of faith, resilience, and the unwavering love of God. Through their trials, they demonstrate the power of trust and the triumph of good over evil. Their story serves as an inspiration for us to persevere in the face of adversity and trust in God's providence.

1. The Persecution of the Holy Family:
The Holy Family, including the Virgin Mary, Joseph, and the young Jesus, faced persecution from the moment of their entry into this world. Our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, came to restore humanity to its former glory and reconcile it with God. Yet, from infancy, Jesus and his family encountered hardships and suffering. The Virgin Mary, filled with love and devotion, endured hunger, thirst, and sorrow for the sake of her beloved son. She willingly embraced the challenges, knowing that they were part of God's plan for their eternal safety.

2. The Faithful Devotion of the Virgin Mary:
As we examine the history of the Holy Family, we discover the profound faith and devotion of the Virgin Mary. Even at a young age, she dedicated herself to serving in the house of God, choosing a life of piety and prayer. When she conceived Jesus through the Holy Spirit's intervention, she faced confusion and doubt from her husband Joseph. However, she never wavered in her trust in God's plan. Her unwavering faith and purity of heart were evident when she declared, "God knows that I am pure; it is God who has done this."

3. Divine Intervention and Protection:
Throughout their journey, the Holy Family encountered numerous trials and dangers. From the flight to Egypt to escape Herod's wrath to the challenges faced in different lands, they relied on God's guidance and protection. Angels appeared in dreams, warning Joseph and providing guidance. The earth opened up to swallow idols in Egypt, demonstrating God's power. Divine intervention rescued Joseph from brutal beatings, and the Virgin Mary performed miracles to protect herself and her family.

4. Lessons of Perseverance and Trust:
The Holy Family's journey teaches us valuable lessons about perseverance and trust in God's plan. Despite the hardships they faced, they never lost hope or doubted God's presence in their lives. Their unwavering faith enabled them to endure persecution and overcome challenges. We learn from them the importance of relying on God during difficult times and trusting that He will provide the strength and guidance needed to navigate the trials of life.

5. The Transformative Power of Love:
Above all, the story of the Holy Family highlights the transformative power of love. The Virgin Mary's love for her son and her unwavering commitment to God's plan demonstrate the selflessness and sacrificial nature of true love. Through her example, we are reminded of the immense love God has for each one of us and how we, too, can express that love through our actions and devotion.

The story of the Holy Family's entrance to Egypt serves as a testament to the power of faith, resilience, and divine protection. The Virgin Mary, Joseph, and Jesus faced immense challenges but remained steadfast in their trust in God. Their journey teaches us to persevere in the face of adversity, to have faith in God's plan, and to embody the transformative power of love. By following their example, we can find solace, strength, and hope in our own lives, knowing that God is always with us, guiding and protecting us through the darkest of times.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1250 | date:2023-06-03T21:45:39 ---


--- id:1251 | date:2023-06-03T21:45:39 ---


--- id:1252 | date:2023-06-03T21:45:39 ---


--- id:1253 | date:2023-06-03T21:46:57 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Feast of the #Paraclete: The Gift of the #Holy_Spirit

Today, we will learn about the significance of the Feast of the Paraclete, a day of great rejoicing and blessing in our Orthodox faith. The term "Paraclete" carries deep meaning, representing the spirit, righteousness, spiritual life, natural breath, physical life, and physical breath. It is within this feast that we celebrate the third person of the Holy Trinity, the Holy Spirit of God, who is worshipped alongside the Father and the Son.

In the Gospel of John, chapter 15, verse 26, our Lord Jesus Christ assures us, saying, "But when the Helper comes, whom I shall send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, He will testify of Me." This divine promise was fulfilled when, on the tenth day after Christ's glorious resurrection, the Holy Spirit descended upon the apostles. This day, known as Pentecost, holds great significance in the life of our Church. The term "Pentecost" is derived from the Greek word "pentēkostē," meaning fiftieth, for it occurs fifty days after our Lord's resurrection.

On this extraordinary day, the apostles were gathered together in the house of Mark's mother, Mary. Suddenly, at the third hour, a mighty sound, like that of a rushing wind, emanated from heaven and filled the entire house. The descent of the Holy Spirit was imminent, and the world was about to witness the power of God's grace and the birth of the Church.

Beloved, it is important to recognize that before the ascension of our Lord, He commanded His disciples to wait for the Holy Spirit. For it is by the Holy Spirit's indwelling that heavenly wealth and knowledge are transformed into spiritual treasures. Acts 2:3 tells us, "Then there appeared to them divided tongues, as of fire, and one sat upon each of them." This divine manifestation signified the filling of the apostles with the Holy Spirit. Through this divine encounter, what they already knew was confirmed, and what they did not know was revealed. Furthermore, the Holy Spirit granted them the miraculous ability to speak in seventy-one languages, in addition to the Hebrew language they already spoke.

Witnessing this marvelous spectacle, some skeptics mocked the apostles, accusing them of being drunk on new wine. However, Saint Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, stood before the gathering and addressed their doubts. He proclaimed, "These are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel: 'And it shall come to pass in the last days, says God, that I will pour out of My Spirit on all flesh; your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see visions, your old men shall dream dreams'" (Acts 2:15-17).

In response to the people's inquiry about what they should do, Saint Peter instructed them to repent and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Through their obedience, three thousand souls received the Word and were baptized that day, becoming partakers of the divine grace poured out by the Holy Spirit.

Notably, among those who were present were individuals from Ethiopia who, upon hearing Saint Peter's sermon, believed in the Lord Jesus Christ and were baptized. Thus, this day is referred to as the Church's Nativity, a momentous occasion commemorated as one of the nine principal festivals of our Lord Jesus Christ. Moreover, it is fittingly called "the lady of all festivals," for on this day, the Holy Spirit blessed the apostles with seventy-one languages, enabling them to carry the Gospel to the ends of the earth.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1254 | date:2023-06-03T21:48:11 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

Beloved members, as we celebrate the Feast of the Paraclete, let us remember the immeasurable gift bestowed upon the apostles and the birth of the Church. Let us seek the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in our lives, for it is through His presence that our hearts are set ablaze with divine love, our minds are enlightened, and our souls are sanctified. Just as the apostles, let us go forth and proclaim the Gospel in the language of those around us, bearing witness to the saving grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.

May the Feast of the Paraclete serve as a constant reminder of the power and guidance of the Holy Spirit in our lives. Let us fervently pray, "Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of Your faithful and kindle in them the fire of Your love. Send forth Your Spirit, and they shall be created, and You shall renew the face of the earth."

Through the intercessions of the Holy Apostles, may we be blessed abundantly with the fullness of the Holy Spirit. Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1257 | date:2023-06-04T14:36:16 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, as you may be aware of, our telegram page is primarily for people older than 16 years of age. However, this is big limitation because kids usually have the most and the best questions. On a different note, it is much easier to plant a tree correctly than to try straighting it after it has grown. Hence starting this week, we will be hosting live Q&A sessions for kids. This will be at 6pm EST every Sunday and it will mainly be lead by volunteer deacons that are capable of answering children's questions and discussing various Church topics with them. And so we ask you to spread the word so many people can take advantage of this program. It will be via Google meet and the link will be the same for every meeting: https://meet.google.com/qeu-moqk-jux

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1261 | date:2023-06-05T22:01:13 ---


--- id:1262 | date:2023-06-05T22:01:13 ---


--- id:1263 | date:2023-06-05T22:01:13 ---


--- id:1264 | date:2023-06-05T22:01:22 ---
👉🏾 #Clarification of a #Bible #Verse

👉 Question፦ Hello Father, I had a question. It is about the verse of the bible that says "love your enemy". How can we love people who are trying to destroy us? 

Answer፦ Indeed, the question you pose is of great significance, dear member. "Love your enemy," a principle taught by Christ, is often difficult to comprehend, especially when our enemies appear to bring us harm or destruction. The tenet seemingly contradicts our natural instincts of self-preservation and justice. As followers of the Orthodox faith, how then do we interpret this seemingly paradoxical instruction?

The Gospel according to Matthew, chapter 5, verse 44 tells us, "But I say to you, love your enemies, bless those who curse you, do good to those who hate you, and pray for those who spitefully use you and persecute you." But who exactly are these enemies that we are called to love? Surely, it is not a call to love those who aim to obliterate our faith, subvert our rights, and bring calamity upon us.

In our Orthodox belief, our true enemy is not of flesh and blood, but the devil himself. The enemy that Christ instructs us to love is not one who seeks to eradicate our faith, usurp our lands, or eradicate our presence on earth. No, it is not a call for passive submission to destructive forces.

Instead, the enemies referred to here are those among our own brothers and sisters in faith with whom we might have disputes or disagreements, those who have perhaps hurt us or wronged us in personal or communal contexts. It is these individuals, who are nevertheless our brethren in faith, that we are instructed to love and forgive.

But when it comes to those who threaten our existence, our faith, and our lands, the Bible offers other wisdom. In these cases, we are called upon to stand firm, to defend our faith and our people. The Biblical figures such as the Prophet David, who defeated Goliath, and the Prophet Moses, who stood against the Pharaoh's tyranny, exemplify this righteous resistance. It is not sinful to stand against destructive forces, indeed it is a calling of duty to protect and preserve the sanctity of life, faith, and community.

So when we interpret the command to "love your enemies," it is essential to discern the context. It means to love and forgive those who share our faith and our common humanity, even when they wrong us in minor ways. It does not imply love for those who aim to destroy our religion, our church, our country, or our lives.

Our duty extends to correction too. If a member of our Orthodox faith engages in wrongful acts, it is our responsibility to gently and lovingly correct them, making them aware of their transgressions. To oppose an evil act is not hatred but a form of love, for it aims to help the individual correct their path.

Moreover, we ought to appreciate that we are called to love even those who do not share our faith, yet are united with us in patriotism, in common goodwill for humanity, and in the fight against destructive forces. Yet, we must not tolerate those who wish to disrupt peace, alter our faith, or destruct our nation. Our forefathers have demonstrated this through their actions.

For instance, during the Adwa war, our ancestors did not stand idle in the face of forces aiming to change our religion and destroy our nation. They did not misconstrue "love your enemy" to mean passive acceptance of such atrocities. Instead, they acted righteously, defended their faith and their land, and handed down to us a heritage of steadfastness and spiritual courage.

In the same way, may God grant us wisdom to discern between our enemies and those merely disguised as such. May He give us strength to love those whom we are called to love and the courage to stand against those who threaten to disrupt our faith and peace. May we walk in His ways, loving when we must love, and resisting when we must resist, until we reach our ultimate salvation.

May God bless us all. 

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1265 | date:2023-06-06T22:53:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Addiction 

Question: Hello fathers, how can I get out of addiction? 

Answer፦ Truly, addiction is one of the most grievous trials of our age. It has touched our society, our church, and even our very families, testing the strength of our faith and causing profound suffering. Addiction is not merely a mundane issue but a spiritual struggle against forces that seek to diminish our inherent dignity and to tarnish the image of God within us.

Many forms of addiction exist, from substances like tobacco and drugs, to behavioural issues such as gluttony, promiscuity, and deceit. Regardless of its form, addiction invariably results in a loss of self-control and a corruption of the soul, as one is led away from virtuous conduct and into behaviours that do not befit a child of God.

Recognize, dear member, that addiction is not just a struggle against mere flesh and blood, but against the spiritual forces of darkness. As our Lord taught, it is the devil who comes to steal, kill and destroy, and addiction is one of the weapons he uses in his relentless war against the human soul.

The holy fathers of the church, drawing from the wellspring of apostolic wisdom and the holy scriptures, have instructed us on how to handle such trials. We do not fight addiction with the weapons of this world, but with the spiritual armour of God. It is by fortifying our souls with faith, prayer, fasting, repentance, and the sacraments that we stand firm against this onslaught.

Yet, in the face of addiction, many people despair, believing that once ensnared in the grip of addiction, escape is impossible. This is a lie from the evil one himself. Do not forget the words of the apostle Paul, "No temptation has overtaken you except what is common to mankind. And God is faithful; he will not let you be tempted beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so that you can endure it."

The journey to recovery from addiction begins with an honest admission of one's struggles and a fervent desire for transformation. It requires the courage to confront one's sins and weaknesses and the humility to seek help. Remember, the journey might be tough, but with God, all things are possible.

Seek spiritual counsel from the fathers of the church or a trusted spiritual advisor who can guide you through this process. Their wisdom, coupled with the grace of God, can set you on the path to recovery. Remain steadfast in prayer, for prayer is the bridge that connects us to God and the armour that shields us from the assaults of the evil one.

Consider seeking help through confession and spiritual counseling, as these practices can provide an avenue for healing. In the sacrament of confession, we confront our sins and express our desire for repentance, and in doing so, we receive the Lord's forgiveness and mercy.

In this struggle, you are not alone. The church is your family and your support, providing you with the necessary spiritual resources and the fellowship of the faithful. We encourage you to turn to your fellow believers for support and to include them in your journey towards healing.

Rest assured, dear member, that there is hope. Addiction is not an unbeatable foe. With the help of God and the support of the Church, you can overcome this affliction. Through the intercessions of the Mother of God and all the saints, may you find strength, courage, and the determination to break free from the chains of addiction.

In closing, we lift you up in prayer, entrusting you to the mercy and grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, through His death and resurrection, has triumphed over sin and death. May His love be your strength and His peace your comfort, today and always. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1272 | date:2023-06-07T22:30:56 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾About #Law, #Faith and #Conduct

Are we justified by keeping the law or by faith alone? Righteousness, faith, conduct

Beloved and esteemed brethren, who follow the orthodox teachings that we impart on the John's Repentance website, we humbly present to you an important lesson on the topic of Law, Faith, and Conduct.

As followers of Christ, we are called to live a life that is both righteous and pleasing in the eyes of our Lord. The question often arises, are we justified by keeping the law or by faith alone? We must remember that the foundation of righteousness is indeed faith, but faith without conduct is futile. As it is written in the Holy Scriptures, "Faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead" (James 2:17).

The law is an integral part of our lives, for it brings justice and condemnation to those who transgress it. If we are obedient and keep the law, we shall be justified, but if we refuse and rebel, we shall be devoured by the sword. The prophet Isaiah confirms this truth when he proclaims, "If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land: But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it" (Isa. 1:19-20).

Furthermore, we must not forget that our conscience, which is the spiritual law within us, guides us towards righteousness. It is through our conscience that we do good deeds and follow the moral laws that are ingrained in us. This serves as a reminder that there is one supreme God who rewards both the righteous and the wicked according to their deeds and judges impartially. As Saint Paul writes, "For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves" (Romans 2:14-14).

In the Orthodox Tewahedo doctrine, conduct is given the highest priority after religion. Conduct is inseparable from faith. As Saint Jacob reminds us, "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him?" (James 2:14). We are called to feed the hungry, sympathize with the bereaved, receive guests, give to one another, visit the sick, preach the gospel to the prisoners, and live in love. These are the hallmarks of Christian ethics, as exemplified in Matthew 25:15-30.

As followers of Christ, we are called to be the salt of the earth, and to stay away from the temptations of fleshly and worldly desires. We must turn away from revenge, malice, deceit, materialism, impurity, adultery, idol worship, and the burden of sin, and return to a good nature. As it is written, "Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account" (Matthew 5:11). Let us take up our crosses and follow Christ, for in Him, we shall find rest for our souls (Matthew 11:29).

Morality is the practical manifestation of our faith. If faith alone were sufficient, then even the demons, who are creatures of God, would have believed and testified that Christ is the Son of God.

As it is written in the Holy Gospel, "When the evil spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, saying, 'You are the Son of God.'" (Mark 3:11) "And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and bowed down to him, shouting with a loud voice and saying, "Jesus, son of the Most High God, what have I to do with you? I swear by God that you will not torture me. "Come out of this man, you unclean spirit" (Mark 5:5-8).

In his message, the apostle Saint James said, "And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God." (Jas 2:19)

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:1273 | date:2023-06-07T22:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

As we understand from this, the devil also believes and trembles, but he does not perform good works. Therefore, a person who claims to be a Christian must not only have faith but also perform good works. The one who obeys God's commandments and lives accordingly will be saved from eternal judgment. "Whoever wants to follow me must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me." This means that "carrying the cross" is the suffering we endure because of our Christian faith while living in the world. "In this world, you will have trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world" (John 16:33).

At that time, the holy apostles who heard these words lived by carrying the cross, enduring the sufferings that came with living a Christian life and emerging victorious. They "persevered through many tribulations to enter the kingdom of God" (Acts 14:22). The journey of Christianity is full of suffering, just like the journey of Calvary. We must resist the desires of the flesh, live for the will of the soul, and fight against the world and the devil. We must persevere to the end, traveling along the narrow path and winning the crown of glory. As it is written, "Be faithful even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life" (Revelation 2:10).

In today's world, which is full of evil, social, psychological, and political problems, Christians, who are the seeds of Christ, must be the solution with their good Orthodox morality. "Turn from evil and do good; then you will dwell in the land forever" (Psalm 34:37).

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1275 | date:2023-06-09T21:55:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Ecclesiastical Order

Question፦ On 1 Tim 3:2 it says :"A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach" who are metropolitan bishops in Orthodox Church? Can they get married or can a bishop be a married person?

Answer፦ The nature of the ecclesiastical order as outlined in the Pauline epistle to Timothy gives us insight into the role of bishops within the Orthodox Church. The bishops, serving as successors to the apostles, are regarded as the principal teachers, administrators, and ceremonial leaders of the Church. In Orthodox tradition, bishops have always been seen as leading lives of celibacy, dedicating their lives entirely to the service of the Church and the will of God. This is manifested in their choice to live as monks, separated from worldly affairs from a young age.

From a historical perspective, we see that the apostles themselves had different backgrounds, including marital status and occupations. The focus, however, has always been on their role as disseminators of God's teachings. Similarly, the roles within the Church, be it bishops, priests, or deacons, have expanded and adapted with the growth of the Church, a point that is well illustrated in the example of the appointment of the first seven deacons, led by St. Stephen.

Now, it's important to understand that the evolution of roles within the Church does not imply a shift away from the principles established by St. Paul. Rather, it signifies the Church's efforts to faithfully fulfill its spiritual obligations as its reach expands. Hence, it is indeed the monks who have embraced a life of celibacy and full devotion to God that take up the mantle of the bishopric. This is consistent with the canons of the Orthodox Church.

While the Orthodox Church encourages celibacy for bishops, it also acknowledges the apostolic guidance for bishops to be 'the husband of one wife.' This underlines the significance of monogamy, but it should not be misconstrued as an injunction for bishops to be married. In the practical and historical context of the Church, the role of the bishop has been fulfilled by those who have embraced a monastic life of celibacy.

Yet, it's important to mention that the authenticity of the ecclesiastical office cannot be guaranteed by monastic life alone. It also requires a deep and genuine spiritual life and knowledge, the absence of which has unfortunately led to errors and aberrations. The Church, in its wisdom, acknowledges that all humans, including its leaders, are prone to mistakes and temptations, as seen in the account of Simon the Magician in the book of Acts. It is essential, then, to avoid appointing those lacking in spiritual knowledge and life to leadership positions in the Church.

And so our dear member, we find that the Church continues to adapt to the needs of its faithful while remaining anchored to its apostolic foundations. It understands the challenges of living a life of peace and equality but insists on this aspiration, urging its flock to transcend the earthly trials and tribulations in pursuit of God's will. Let us, therefore, remember to bear our responsibilities faithfully, both within the Church and in the wider world, and to uphold the principles of peace, equality, and righteousness as taught by the apostles and preserved by the saints. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1276 | date:2023-06-10T21:30:02 ---


--- id:1277 | date:2023-06-10T21:30:02 ---


--- id:1278 | date:2023-06-10T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Discourse on the Divine Mystery of #Holy #Communion

1. To those who faithfully partake of Holy Communion

"Whoever endures to the end will be saved" Matthew 24:13

The essence of the Christian life resides not only in professing faith but in preserving it until our last breath. This was the counsel of our Lord to His disciples, whom He ordained and sent forth to proclaim the Gospel. He did not promise them a path strewn with roses, but a journey filled with trials, strewn with fiery tests and bearing the sharp edge of persecution.

It is of utmost importance to keep in mind that your victor, the Lord who has overcome the world, is by your side. Despite manifold hardships, remember to remain steadfast in your faith and love of God, and never to let your spiritual crown tumble.

Learn to treat the mundane affairs of this world with equanimity, cherishing the knowledge that all things on earth are but fleeting. With perseverance, transform every aspect of your life, be it commerce, agriculture, learning, marrying, rearing children, into an act of dedication to God. Remember that you do not bear the weight of your life alone; your God is by your side, transforming all your deeds into blessings. 

Heed the wisdom imparted in the scriptures to combat the devil's ploys. Do not disregard the tribulations you face, for these trials temper your faith. After savouring the grace of God, pray fervently that any worldly enticements that could wrench you from God's glory be quashed beneath your feet. 

2. To those desiring to faithfully partake of Holy Communion 

"Now is the day of salvation" /2 Corinthians 6:2/

The Apostle's exhortation that today is the day of our salvation should spur our determination to prepare for Holy Communion. 

The desire to partake in Holy Communion must be birthed from the Holy Spirit. It requires self-examination and contemplation: Why do I desire Communion? How deeply do I comprehend its significance? What are my expectations for life post-Communion? 

Saint Peter proclaimed, "Lord, to whom shall we go?" (John 6:68), emphasizing the enduring, life-giving truth that Christ alone has the words of eternal life. However, many stumbled at Christ's claim, "My flesh is real food, and my blood is real drink." Such people could not fathom how one could consume Christ's flesh and blood, and thus, they fell away. To prevent a similar downfall, ensure that your motivation for Communion stems not from anything else than the depth of your faith and from guidance provided by your spiritual leader.

As you approach Holy Communion, beware of the whispers of Satan, who seeks to fill your heart with doubts and fears.

3. To those distant from Holy Communion 

"If they still refuse to listen, tell it to the church" /Matthew 18:17/

No Christian who truly grasps the significance of Holy Communion would shun it. Are you hesitant to receive Communion due to personal conflicts or issues? Address these problems openly within the church, as instructed by the Gospel. 

Those who believe they can traverse this world unscathed by troubles are victims of a devilish delusion. Indeed, as followers of Christ, we should expect the world's disdain and hostility, for our Lord warned, "If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first" (John 15:18).

Consequently, if we avoid approaching God due to our problems, our error is grave. For no matter the chaos in our lives, we should never consider ourselves unworthy to draw near to God. 

Every Christian has the capacity to dedicate their life to the worship and glorification of God, just as they have the potential to prepare for eternal glory through Holy Communion.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1279 | date:2023-06-10T21:36:01 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

How long will you neglect the commands of your Lord and fail to comprehend the depth of your need for Him? Be aware that any attempt to navigate life's trials alone will inevitably lead to your downfall. Instead, strive to partake of the covenant of the Holy Communion, for unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you (John 6:53). Before your mortal body returns to the dust and your spirit to God who gave it (Ecclesiastes 12:7), engage deeply with this divine mystery. Remember, you are but a transient guest in this world. Partake of the Holy Communion and ensure your eternal dwelling with God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1280 | date:2023-06-11T09:30:37 ---


--- id:1281 | date:2023-06-11T09:30:37 ---


--- id:1282 | date:2023-06-11T09:30:37 ---


--- id:1283 | date:2023-06-11T09:30:37 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, as you may be aware of, our telegram page is primarily for people older than 16 years of age. However, this is big limitation because kids usually have the most and the best questions. On a different note, it is much easier to plant a tree correctly than to try straighting it after it has grown. Hence starting this week, we will be hosting live Q&A sessions for kids. This will be at 6pm EST every Sunday and it will mainly be lead by volunteer deacons that are capable of answering children's questions and discussing various Church topics with them. And so we ask you to spread the word so many people can take advantage of this program. It will be via Google meet and the link will be the same for every meeting: https://meet.google.com/qeu-moqk-jux

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1287 | date:2023-06-11T22:02:03 ---


--- id:1288 | date:2023-06-11T22:02:03 ---


--- id:1289 | date:2023-06-11T22:02:04 ---


--- id:1290 | date:2023-06-11T22:02:21 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Virtues of #Patience, #Humility, and #Contentment

In the depths of humanity's fallen state, when death entered the world, it did so through three grievous crimes: impatience, pride, and greed. Yet, through the grace of Christ, death was conquered by three great virtues, which we shall explore in depth. Drawing from the wisdom of the Orthodox tradition, we shall delve into the significance of patience, humility, and contentment, and their transformative power in the life of a believer.

Part 1: Impatience - Overcoming the Sinful Nature
Impatience, born from a restless spirit, is a formidable obstacle in the path of righteousness. As we reflect upon the events in the Garden of Eden, we witness the devastating consequences of haste. The serpent, the preacher of sin, whispered to Eve, stirring unease within her heart. Restlessness clouded her judgment, and she failed to investigate the serpent's deceitful words. Subsequently, Adam, who should have stood firm, was also swayed by impatience, leading both of them towards a tragic downfall.

Impatience continues to afflict humanity, as we often succumb to the allure of sin without considering the consequences. Yet, Christ, the second Adam, demonstrated the power of patience. He endured the mocking and scourging silently, willingly accepting the weight of our sins. By His patience, He astonished onlookers and conquered death itself. In imitating Christ's patience, we find the strength to endure, for salvation belongs to those who persevere till the end.

Part 2: Humility - Embracing Obedience and Discernment
Pride, the first sin, is a perilous temptation that ensnares even the noblest of creatures. It is the root of disobedience and rebellion against God's established order. In the Garden of Eden, this sin manifested itself when Adam and Eve disregarded the fear of God and broke His commandment. The devil himself, consumed by pride, had no opportunity for repentance, succumbing to eternal damnation.

To counteract this destructive pride, we must embrace humility and obedience. Our Lord Jesus Christ, the epitome of humility, willingly submitted Himself to the cross, even unto death, to redeem us from the consequences of our disobedience. He obediently accepted the weight of our sins, showcasing that obedience is the path to true life. Just as a child obeys their parent, even to the point of sacrifice, Christ demonstrated obedience to remove the death sentence imposed upon us by our disobedience. In imitating Christ's obedience, we restore the image of God within us and find our way back to eternal communion with Him.

Part 3: Contentment - Overcoming Greed and Embracing Generosity
Greed, the insidious desire for more, separates us from the company of God and His heavenly angels. It distorts our perception, causing us to covet what is forbidden or unnecessary. In the Garden, Adam and Eve beheld the tree and its fruit, considering it beautiful and desirable only after the serpent planted the seed of greed within them.

Greed leads us down a treacherous path, where the devil entices us with false promises and desires. When we fail to find contentment in the grace bestowed upon us, death lurks nearby, ready to claim our lives. Yet, our Lord Jesus Christ, the Second Adam, offers a powerful antidote. He, who did not even desire His own life, willingly sacrificed Himself for others. Even in death, He gave generously, making amends for the wrongs committed by greed. Our first father rushed to acquire what he lacked, driven by covetousness, while our second father willingly gave

 His own wealth, even His flesh and blood, for our salvation. Through Christ, we learn to replace greed with generosity, finding fulfillment in selflessness and gratitude.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1291 | date:2023-06-11T22:05:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

In summary, the Orthodox perspective on patience, humility, and contentment reveals profound truths about the human condition and our path to salvation. By cultivating patience, we overcome the restlessness that leads to sin. Through humility, we embrace obedience and discern God's will. And by rejecting greed and embracing contentment, we discover the transformative power of generosity. Let us strive to embody these virtues in our lives, drawing closer to Christ and experiencing the fullness of His grace.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1302 | date:2023-06-14T22:18:54 ---


--- id:1303 | date:2023-06-14T22:18:54 ---


--- id:1304 | date:2023-06-14T22:19:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Trinity 

Beloved members of John's Repentance service, today (Technically yesterday) is the monthly feast the Holy Trinity. Hence we send you this writing so you may read and partake form the Trinity's blessings. 

The Holy Trinity - a profound mystery, one that confounds the human mind and yet, stands as a beacon of divine revelation. The Trinity, the triune God, is a singular essence manifested in three persons - the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. This, however, should not be confined within the human concept of numbers. The unity is not merely numerical, but a unity of divine essence, an unity of character. The three, then, surpasses the boundaries of numerics to suggest a unique trinity, a unique interconnectedness and interdependence.

God is beyond the comprehension of human mind, beyond the law of numbers. Thus, it is imperative that God Himself reveals the mystery of the Holy Trinity to His creation. The grand revelation - the incarnation of God - stands as a testament to this mystery. It is through the Son of God, Christ, becoming flesh that the eternal Fatherhood and Sonship become recognizable. It is during the baptism of Christ by John the Baptist that the world comes to acknowledge Christ as the eternal Son of God the Father.

The teachings of Christ post His baptism unraveled the divine nature of God the Father. These teachings, in combination with the moral life led by Christ, exhibited the coequality of the Holy Spirit with the Father and the Son. This divine revelation, in the body of Christ, was then passed on to the church, His body on earth. Christ informed us about God the Father, and the church, in her liturgical prayers, affirms this revelation.

The Holy Spirit, a purifying and glorifying life, is the life of the Father and the Son. He is the God who lives within the Father and the Son. During the baptism of Christ, He descended in the form of a dove, teaching us to be baptized in the Holy Spirit as per the Gospel of Matthew (28:19).

The apostle St. John begins his Gospel by affirming the eternal existence of the Word, indicating its unity with the Father and the Holy Spirit - the divine Trinity. He asserts that the Word was first, suggesting the preeminence of the Word, thereby allowing the fathers of the church to interpret the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. As such, the Old Testament is understood as foretelling the New Testament - the incarnation of the Son, who revealed to us His Father, and the Trinity.

When Christ queried His disciples about His identity, Saint Peter responded, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God." (Matthew 16:16). Christ then affirms that this knowledge comes from His Father, and blessed Peter for his testimony. This affirmation from Peter not only confirmed the identity of Christ, but also subtly illuminated the mystery of the Holy Trinity. Peter's words imply that Christ is the living Son of God, sustained by the life of the Holy Spirit - thereby acknowledging the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

The essence of this revelation goes further to highlight the mystery of the Incarnation. Christ, who came in the flesh, was the awaited Messiah as prophesied by the prophets. Thus, St. Peter, through divine revelation, testified to the mystery of the Trinity and the Incarnation in one breath.

This revelation of the unity and trinity of God is evident in His creation and His salvation of the world. The Old Testament foretells God's plan for the salvation of the world, and the Gospel of John reveals the Trinity's involvement in the creation and salvation of the world. It is the same Trinity, who created the world from non-existence, that also saves the world with their unified power when it falls due to wrongdoing. Thus, we come to understand the divine interaction between the Creator and the creation as revealed in the Scriptures. The Trinity's nature, revealed

 in the eternal life, is also manifest in the salvation of this world.

(Corninies) 👇

--- id:1305 | date:2023-06-14T22:19:01 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

In summary, God is one; God is three - an unfathomable mystery and a profound truth. The unity and trinity of God are essential to understanding His divine nature, His creation, and His salvific action in the world. This understanding requires God's self-revelation, which is manifest in the incarnation of the Son, the teachings of the church, and the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Only through this revelation can we begin to comprehend the depths of the mystery of the Holy Trinity.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1308 | date:2023-06-15T21:33:07 ---
👉🏾 About the #sin of #adultery

👉 Question፦ Hello father, what can I do to stop my adultery with women?

Answer፦ Dear member if John's Repentance service, It is indeed a matter of great consequence that you bring before us, for the act of adultery is a sin that profoundly afflicts both individual souls and societies at large. A sin not only of the flesh, but one of dissatisfaction and desire for novelty, it is a significant challenge that must be grappled with, not just for the individuals involved, but for the community as a whole. As we know from the teachings of our Lord Jesus Christ in Matthew 12:39, he condemned the adulterous and wayward generation, hinting at a spiritual restlessness and discontent that undergirds the act of adultery itself.

We must understand that adultery has many faces. It is not confined merely to the illicit relations between a man and a woman. Indeed, it stretches to a fundamental restlessness and desire for constant change. It is a yearning for more and for new, a persistent dissatisfaction with the present moment and circumstances. This adulterous attitude stretches beyond mere romantic relationships and seeps into every aspect of life.

Adultery, then, is the act of desiring more than what is given to us by God. It is the refusal to accept and be content with what we have, to honour and cherish what God has bestowed upon us. It is a revolt against the divine will and order, which dictates that a man is meant for one woman and vice versa.

Moreover, the act of infidelity extends beyond the marital bed. It extends to all relations outside the institution of holy matrimony - it is the indulgence in sexual acts before marriage, self-gratification, homosexuality, and even worshipping false gods. The sin of Israel against their idols, for example, is a form of spiritual adultery. To stray from the path that our God has illuminated for us and to follow another is to commit spiritual adultery.

What, then, is the remedy for such a condition? It lies in combating the very tendencies that give rise to adultery. If we are prone to seeking the new and untried, we must strive to remain content with what we have, adhering to the teachings of God. Recognizing the harm and destructiveness of adultery is the first step towards redemption. This harm can manifest itself in various ways, whether it is through consuming inappropriate media, participating in illicit activities, or allowing our thoughts to wander into immoral territories.

The antidote lies in understanding the gravity of the sin and recognizing its consequences. As we see in Genesis 19, those who indulged in debauchery and adultery in the time of Lot were consumed by divine fire, while those who stayed true to God's commandments were saved. Understanding the potential for destruction that adultery harbors, we can then arm ourselves with the strength and resolve to resist such temptations.

Fasting, prostrating, praying, repenting, participating actively in the Church, and engaging with the Word of God are key practices that can fortify us against this sin. These acts of devotion help foster a spiritual mindset that is resistant to the allure of adultery. Furthermore, we can find solace and strength in the lives and stories of those who remained chaste and virtuous, for these stories bear testament to the possibility of a virtuous life.

Ultimately, the path to redemption from this sin lies in following in the footsteps of our spiritual ancestors, who triumphed over such temptations and remained true to their faith. We must strive to cultivate a steadfastness of spirit, resisting the allure of novelty and change and finding contentment in the divine order that God has set before us.

Thus, may God, our loving Father, imbue us with the strength and fortitude of our spiritual forefathers to resist the destructive lure of adultery. For it is in His power and mercy that we find our salvation.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1309 | date:2023-06-16T22:30:01 ---
👉🏾 How can I be in a #relationship and be strong in my #spiritual life? 

👉 Question፦ Hello my fathers, how should spiritual courtship be? I am very hesitant on having a girlfriend because if I do, I'll spend a lot of time on the phone and this will affect my spiritual life. And I become ashamed of going to church, my prayers aren't even very authentic. Please advise me?

Answer፦ Dear member, Your question is a deeply important one, an echo of the struggle that youth face in the realm of spirituality and technology today. Modernity and its offerings have brought us closer to the brink of not just convenience, but also possible spiritual calamity. Technology, while possessing many advantages, can act as an Achilles' heel in our pursuit of righteousness.

Just as the law, culture, and tradition once curtailed our potential missteps, we now find that technology, unconstrained by these boundaries, offers numerous opportunities for sinful deeds even as we sit alone, or among a crowd, with a phone in our hand. Thus, your apprehension about fostering relationships through these mediums is both valid and wise.

Indeed, in the realm of friendships and courtship, the digital world poses a challenge. It may offer an illusion of connection, an impression of love, yet the risks of transgressions are manifold. Conversations held in the sanctuary of technology, where both parties are physically distant, can lead to misunderstanding, misdeeds, and regrettable outcomes. Herein lies the paradox of technology - it has the potential for both good and harm.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1310 | date:2023-06-16T22:33:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

Yet, despite this turbulent sea of modern possibilities, we must remember that the finding of a good spouse is not impossible. While the process requires vigilance, prayer, and patience, it is attainable. The success of one among a hundred should not discourage you, but inspire you, knowing that the effort you put in to find a partner who strengthens your spirituality, is worthwhile.

Unfortunately, the trials and tribulations of this search can sometimes distance us from our Church, disrupt our peace of mind, hinder our prayers, and obstruct our service to God. It is a difficult paradox to navigate - the pursuit of a Godly union often making us feel more removed from God Himself.

This predicament that you, and many others, find yourselves in reflects the inherent imperfection of our human condition. Even in our quest for what seems good and desirable, we stumble and err. This is particularly difficult for those striving to live a Christian life, for we are intimately aware of our wrongdoings and live under the shadow of guilt. Each mistake feels like a sharp, chastising word from God Himself.

However, remember this: It is the duty of conscience to blame us when we err, but it is also our privilege as God's children to seek His forgiveness and guidance. Before you embark on your journey of seeking a life partner, immerse yourself in prayer. Ask God to light your path, to guide your steps, and to reveal the right woman to you.

This journey is not solely about your wisdom or educational attainment. It is about discerning God's will and finding a spouse who complements your spiritual journey. The path is fraught with distractions and temptations. Do not let your gaze linger on the superficial, for it can lead to the 'fornication of the eyes', 'fornication of thought', and ultimately 'fornication of action'.

Seek counsel and advice, for it can offer much-needed guidance. Lean on God's wisdom to help navigate this complex terrain. This plea is not one to be taken lightly, for falling into sin and straying from God is a perilous journey that the devil is all too eager to encourage.

However, remember, no matter the mistakes made yesterday, today offers a new opportunity to approach God and admit, "I have sinned." We should never shy away from God due to our guilt and shame. To distance oneself from our merciful Father is a grave error, for it is He who forgives, renews, and revives us in our spiritual destruction.

God, the sanctifier of the saints, corrects us not to condemn us, but to draw us back to his holy path. In Him, we find our path, our strength, and ultimately, our salvation. Remember this and approach your spiritual courtship with the fear of God, the love of His commandments, and trust in His wisdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1317 | date:2023-06-17T22:18:25 ---
👉🏾 About #Pregnancy and #pennance 

Question፦ Can a pregnant women confess/repent? I ask that because it may be hard for her to do the prostrations that the priests usually ask us to do.

Answer፦ Answering from an Orthodox perspective, it is important to bear in mind the overarching emphasis our Church places on love, mercy, and the sanctity of human life. Pregnancy is a time of unique grace and responsibility, carrying and nurturing within oneself a life created in the divine image. It is a period where women should receive exceptional care, guidance, and protection. 

Now, as to the question of repentance during pregnancy, we must remember that God's forgiveness is not confined by physical gestures or actions, such as prostrations. Rather, true repentance begins in the heart and mind. When a person feels genuine remorse for their sins and seeks God's mercy, the journey towards reconciliation with the divine begins. Prostrations, kneeling, fasting, and the like are valuable aids on this journey, but they are not its essence. The essence is contrition and a sincere desire to turn away from sinful patterns. Thus, pregnant women, as well as all others who for one reason or another cannot perform certain acts of penance, can fully partake in the sacrament of confession and receive absolution for their sins.

If there exists any particular sin that the woman feels particularly burdened by during her pregnancy, it should not remain unspoken out of fear of physical restrictions. Our faith holds life and its preservation as paramount, and it does not demand that a pregnant woman risk her health or that of her unborn child to perform certain acts of penance. What is required is the sincerity of the heart and the genuine intention to rectify one's ways, rather than any physical demonstration of penitence.

Moreover, if any transgressions were committed before the woman discovered her pregnancy, she should bring them to light post-delivery. In the interim period, she should seek the counsel of wise and pious elders, stay constant in prayer, and try to lead a righteous life, nurturing the life within her with love and care. God, who is the ultimate source of wisdom and mercy, knows our intentions, our fears, and our struggles. 

While it is true that Orthodox canon permits certain exemptions for pregnant and nursing women, such as being excused from fasting or performing strenuous acts of prayer, it does not exclude them from spiritual engagement entirely. They are encouraged to maintain a strong prayer life and remain connected with their spiritual fathers for guidance and support.

Lastly, regarding a pregnant woman's participation in communal prayer, the Church recommends a balanced approach. While it's true that faith, not the quantity of prayers or their location, is the ultimate path to salvation, the Church also acknowledges the benefit of community and mutual prayer. A pregnant woman may pray at home, and if she chooses to partake in communal prayer, she should do so in a manner that does not compromise her health or wellbeing. After giving birth, the Church community should extend its arms in love and care, ensuring that the mother and child are enveloped in spiritual blessings and God's grace.

In sum, the Orthodox Church teaches us to prioritize the sanctity of life and the health of the mother and child during pregnancy. True repentance and reconciliation with God begins in the heart, and not in the physical acts associated with penance. While physical restrictions may prevent pregnant women from participating in some traditional acts of penance, they are not precluded from confessing their sins, seeking God's mercy, or participating in communal prayers in a manner that respects their physical condition.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1322 | date:2023-06-18T22:12:55 ---


--- id:1323 | date:2023-06-18T22:12:55 ---


--- id:1324 | date:2023-06-18T22:12:55 ---


--- id:1325 | date:2023-06-18T22:13:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Archangel St. #Michael 

Beloved members of John's Repentance service, today is the annual feast the St. Michael. Hence we send you this writing so you may read and partake form the Archangel's blessings. 

The Archangel St. Michael is highly revered in the Orthodox Church, celebrated for his dedicated service to God and his pivotal role as a protector, intercessor, and warrior against the forces of evil. His presence in biblical narratives and miraculous interventions mark him as a significant figure not just in the spiritual realm, but also in the lives of the faithful.

St. Michael, whose name means “Who is like God”, is the leader of the heavenly hosts and always stands before God's throne, advocating for humanity. This idea is reinforced in the Book of Joshua, where St. Michael appears as the commander of the Lord's army, showing his leadership and divine authority. His steadfast support of the saints and martyrs, offering strength and resilience, further showcases his commitment to God's people.

The church celebrates his feast on the 12th of each month, with two major feasts held on the 12th of Hator/Hidär (November 21st) and on the 12th of Paona/Sëné (June 19th). Celebrating St. Michael through these feasts is a testament to his influence and importance. Traditional practices such as offering alms and holding festivals in his name serve to honor and remember him, reflecting the deeply ingrained respect and love for St. Michael among the faithful.

Miracles are often associated with St. Michael, reinforcing his role as an active, divine participant in human affairs. The story of Dorotheus and Theopista provides a powerful example of this, as St. Michael aids this pious family in their time of need, miraculously providing for them as they honor him with a feast.

The Archangel Michael is often depicted in church iconography in a soldier's attire, symbolizing his role as the commander of the heavenly army. The spear he holds signifies his victory over Satan, as described in the book of Revelation, where he triumphs in the war in heaven, expelling the devil.

St. Michael is also recognized as the angel of the Resurrection, as cited in the Gospel of Matthew. His protective role extends to entire communities, where he is considered the guardian of monasteries, with many churches worldwide built in his honor. His widespread veneration is also reflected in the many people named after him, demonstrating the depth of his impact on the faithful.

St. Michael's humility, despite his grandeur, is evident in the epistle of Jude, where he disputes with the devil over Moses' body, showing restraint and respect for divine authority. He is also known to assist other archangels, such as Gabriel, in their missions.

Finally, as we celebrate the Annual Feast of Archangel Saint Michael, we are reminded of his role in leading the Israelites out of Egypt and guiding them through their journey, as described in the book of Exodus. He is revered as a protector and intercessor, helping those enslaved by sin, advocating for love, harmony, and peace among the faithful. 

To incorporate these lessons into our lives, we are encouraged to emulate St. Michael's humility, strength, and unwavering loyalty to God. Just as he intercedes for humanity, we too should advocate for one another in love and solidarity. And just as he battles the forces of evil, we should strive to resist sin and promote peace and harmony in our lives. As we honor St. Michael, we can draw inspiration from his divine example and aspire to reflect these virtues in our own lives.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1328 | date:2023-06-19T21:48:02 ---


--- id:1329 | date:2023-06-19T21:48:02 ---


--- id:1330 | date:2023-06-19T21:48:02 ---


--- id:1331 | date:2023-06-19T21:49:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Repentance 

Repentance is an integral part of the Christian faith, and it is a necessary step for individuals seeking to reconcile with God. The concept of repentance is not limited to the New Testament but is also present in the Old Testament, where the prophets called on the Israelites to repent and turn away from their wicked ways.

Repentance is a process that involves acknowledging one's sins, seeking forgiveness, and committing to change. It requires a humble heart and a willingness to confess one's wrongdoing. In the New Testament, John the Baptist urged the people to "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand" (Matthew 3:2). Jesus also emphasized the importance of repentance, saying, "I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance" (Luke 5:32).

Repentance is not just a one-time event but a continuous process of turning away from sin and towards God. It involves a change of heart and mind, leading to a transformation of one's behavior. This change is only possible through the power of the Holy Spirit, which helps believers to overcome their sinful desires and live a righteous life.

Repentance is also a prerequisite for forgiveness. In the Bible, God promises to forgive those who repent and turn away from their sins. King David, for example, repented of his sin with Bathsheba and received forgiveness from God (Psalm 51). The Apostle Peter also encouraged his listeners to repent and be baptized for the forgiveness of their sins (Acts 2:38).

Repentance is not just a personal act but also a communal one. In the book of Jonah, the prophet warned the people of Nineveh to repent, and they responded by humbling themselves and turning away from their wickedness. The prophet Jeremiah also called on the people of Israel to repent and turn back to God (Jeremiah 3:12-13).

Finally, repentance is an essential part of the Christian journey, as it helps believers to grow in their faith and relationship with God. It is through repentance that Christians can experience God's grace and mercy and draw closer to Him. As the Apostle Paul wrote, "Godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and leaves no regret, but worldly sorrow brings death" (2 Corinthians 7:10).

Dear members of John's Repentance page, in conclusion we say to you that repentance is a vital aspect of the Christian faith, and it is essential for believers seeking to reconcile with God. It involves acknowledging one's sins, seeking forgiveness, and committing to change. Repentance is a continuous process, leading to a transformation of one's behavior and a closer relationship with God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1337 | date:2023-06-20T22:44:38 ---


--- id:1338 | date:2023-06-20T22:44:38 ---


--- id:1339 | date:2023-06-20T22:45:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, as you may know, we have recently started a live Q&A program for kids (roughly 8-18 year olds). This is at 6pm EST every Sunday and it is lead by volunteer deacons that are capable of answering children's questions and discussing various Church topics with them. We are now extending it by 1hr to accomodate more people as well as to make it a little more convenient for some joining us from Europe. Hence it will now be from 5-7pm EST. One can come in and leave anytime during that time interval so we ask you to spread the word about this opportunity to your friends, family, or anyone you think might be interested. It is still via Google meet and the link is the same for every meeting: https://meet.google.com/qeu-moqk-jux

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1341 | date:2023-06-22T05:41:44 ---


--- id:1342 | date:2023-06-22T05:41:44 ---


--- id:1343 | date:2023-06-22T05:41:44 ---


--- id:1344 | date:2023-06-22T05:41:58 ---
The Ten Spiritual Titles (Levels)
 
👉Question: If you could explain to me about the ten spiritual levels, our father?
 
✍Answer: Title means levels of honor, power.  As the apostle Saint Paul said in 1 Cor 15:31, "one star is different from another star in glory", the glory and power of one of them is different from another according to the sacrifices and legacies of the saints who live forever as stars for their good deeds. / Dan 12:3; Rev 12:1-4/. It has been revealed in the books of monks that there are ten ranks that the saints have reached.

Accordingly, we will look through the ten ranks that the saints can achieve through struggle and inheritance. The ten spiritual pillars are the steps or ladders on which a person can grow step by step to reach any of these ten spiritual levels or titles. Ten is the number of fullness. It is a symbol of something whole; and we find this numbering in many stories in the Bible, various books, and   history dictionaries. Spirituality means living in the world of the soul, not worrying about what passes and perishes. 

Therefore, it means that when a person grows in his spirituality, everything else that passes and disappears does not bother him except for the matter of the soul.
A person grows physically, mentally, financially …jn the same way, , there is also spiritual growth which goes gradually. As a baby does not become an adult all at once, it is also not possible to grow spiritually at once or to be perfect soon. Therefore,  gradually practice in a continued manner is important to reach the life of our holy fathers. It it is said "Think of your leaders who have told you the word of God, and look at the fruit of their lives and imitate them in faith. Heb 13:7.

In the parable of the farmer and the seed taught by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, he said, "And another seed fell on good ground, and one yielded a hundred, and one sixty, and one thirty fruits." /Mathew 13:8/ The seed is God's word, and the good soil is Christians who listen to God's word and bear fruit, religion and food. 1 Cor 3:9 It means that according to their work, they will bear 30, 60, 100/ /thirty, sixty, hundred/ fruits or they will get different honors and powers. The ranks of saints are determined by the extent of their legacy of struggle during their lifetime. In the scriptures, it is repeatedly mentioned that God will reward each person according to his work. / Psalm 51:12; Proverbs 14:12; Matthew 16:17; Romans 2:6; Rev. 10:12/.
 
The Ten Spiritual Ranks (Titles) are as follows.

1. 'Tsmawe' (it means ignorance to worldly matters) 2. 'Lbawe' (it means clear understanding) 3. 'Taame Zmare' (it means testful song) 4. 'Enbue' (tear of repentance) 5. Condemnation 6. Love 7. 'Husset' (it means existing anywhere without moving) 8. 'Seeing Angels 9. Drowned 10. 'Being fire' . They are divided into three parts of levels /honers:-  called "purity of body, purity of soul, purity of heart".
 
 
1 'ጽማዌ' (Ignorance to worldly matters)

'ጽማዌ' (Tsuwame) it means not being able to hear about the world matters due to ignorance or choosing silence The reason these saints are called 'tsum' ('not hearing') is not because their ears fail to hear because of a natural problem, but because they do not want to hear the things of the world. In this sense, wether if a person's ear can hear or not, he will not hear any sound in the world, he will only listen to the thoughts of his heart. Saints who have reached this stage do not want to listen to anything of the world while they are in the world. But with their conscience they think of God, and with their nose they smell the fragrance of paradise. When they reach this rank, they are able to distinguish the worlds that cannot be seen with their eyes, giant beasts, souls separated from their bodies, demons. They will also reach the level of seeing angels who are on mission in this world. But because they never knew the names of the angels who appeared to them, what they did, what they said, and who they were, they were called 'Tsuwame' (not able to hear).
 
(Part 2 continues )👇

--- id:1345 | date:2023-06-22T05:45:02 ---
The Ten Spiritual Titles (Levels)

(Part 2)👇

But their ignorance or silence does not mean not speaking or talking at all; rather it means not speaking evil things, not being subject to evil things, staying away from evil things, and not eating food.

This is the first step practiced by our holy fathers.  They speak the word of God, they say good things, they have no place for bad things, it means that their food is the word of God.
 
2 “ልባዌ” ( heart, insight, knowledge)

‘ልባዌ’ (Lbawe)  it means heart, insight, knowledge, opinion of the heart. Saints who have reached this rank prostrate more when they are  tempted by desire and evil thoughts . They don't want their conscience to separate them from thinking about the cross so that they don't want their grace to be lifted up by thinking about physical things. If they are steadfast in their promise, God will quickly give them everything they need. They will also see where the soul separates from the body. When angels ascend and descend, they know their mission and even their names. He gives them the grace to see the demons and to know why they were sent. They understand without asking anything that is under the surface of the earth except some things that God hides. / Dan 9:11-13; 2 Cor 12:1-7; Galatians 6:4/.

It is also a way of knowing what God has done, knowing and noticing what is being said and what is being done. For example, there are the so-called "Five Pillar Mysteries",  and it means to understand and know . To describe in an example, we hear a sound and we hear that sound, but we do not understand the essence of it. For example, he hears a car screeching, but doesn't know what to say. But we call it " Lbawe " to understand the essence, to understand everything that has been done, to pay attention, to know the secret.
 
Third: It is called 'Anbie' (crying), it means to cry, (to shed tears)" It means to cry while thinking of the suffering of Christ, the torture of the martyrs and everything that Christ has done for us. But when they reach this rank, they know it, so it means to cry while thinking of his merits, this is called 'Anbie', it means to cry while thinking of Christ's suffering.

3. ጣዕመ ዝማሬ (Tastful Song).

‘ጣዕመ ዝማሬ’   it means 'Tastful Song'. Fathers know the secret of the prayers they pray when they reach this rank. They never tire of fasting, prayer, worship, spiritual service. Their voices are like angels when they sing. They give thanks day and night without rest. They don't get bored of their own voice as it is like the singing of angels. They do not eat food unless they want to hide their dignity. They don't sleep. For fathers who have reached this rank, the devils will bring a test of conscience to them that they will enter the city instead of where you live disguised as a squirrel in this cave and live there, sanctify, sing, and teach. At this time, they will be given the title of a pure soul if their heart is freed from vain praise.

4. ‘የነፍስ ንጽሕና’ (Purity of Soul)

‘የነፍስ ንጽሕና’ it means Purity of Soul (Centralists) The title of a pure soul is the time when the body is forgotten, and the soul is free of sins. God blesses the person who lives steadfastly in the time of pure soul. He sees the light and mystery of the Supreme, which the people of this world cannot see with the physical body. But he will be subjected to a special test. Leaving a legacy, despairing, doubting that I should give up and leave, he will not forgive me, he will not save me. At this time, because of the number of fasts, without wavering from his steadfastness, if he perseveres in religion, saying that God will save him, his glory (grace) will not separate him. Those who are in the title of pure soul are likened to the seed that produced 60 (sixty) fruits. The virtues of a pure soul are tear of repentance, condemnation, love, and humility.

'አንብዕ' (Tear of repentance) it means lots of tears for repetance. 'Saints who reach this rank are given the wealth of tears. They recite without ceasing (tears of repentance); But their eyes are not lost; Their tears do not stop.

(Part3)👇

--- id:1346 | date:2023-06-22T05:48:02 ---
The Ten Spiritual Titles (Levels)

Part 3

Saints who reach this rank usually pray with conscience; Not through fatigue. And because this is a subtle grace that walks in their conscience, it removes their sins.

Just like if you throw wet wood on the fire, burning water will come out, so the saints who are at the level of tears of repentance will shed tears of grace because of the fire of spiritual grace burning in their hearts while thinking of the death of God and the bitter hellfire. / Matthew 5:4; Luke 6:11; Acts 10:1; Romans 12:11.
 
5. 'ኩነኔ' ( Condemnation)

'ኩነኔ' ( Condemnation) it means rule, dominion. Saints who have reached this rank, their soul's will rules their body's will; He will win. In human life, the will of the body and the soul are always in conflict. /Galatians 5:16-17/. The title of 'condemnation' is where the will of the soul overcomes and takes control of the body, where the soul begins by doing only the will of the Holy Spirit. The will of their flesh has no effect on the will of their soul. They are also protected from abuse. They grieve thinking of the damnation of hell and hellfire. Holy Fathers, a person who reaches this rank will think of the death of the Son of God and will be ready to suffer; They explain. / Romans 7:15-18; 1 Cor 9:17; Galatians 5:14-16; Eph 2:1/.
 
6 ‘ፍቅር’ (Love)
 
‘ፍቅር’ (Love)  it means to love everyone; regardless of whether they are sinners, righteous, believers, heretics, relatives or strangers. This is a big thing we are getting trouble in this world.   We humans love only those who loves us, who did something or favor to us; but the saints do not do that.  Fathers who reach this rank are given the wealth of loving all. And he loves them all. Among these fathers, this one is rich, this one is poor, this one is in authority, this one is male, this one is female, this one is kind, this one is evil, this one is handsome, this one is ugly. These saints love all people as Christ loved the world. They have compassion for everyone. They pray for people, to step from apostasy to religion, from active sin to active righteousness. In general, birds and animals do not attack them. Even rebellious demons obey them. / Psalm 90:13; Matthew 5:33-38; Luke 6:16-20; 10:17; 1 Cor 13:1-13/.

7 ሑሰት
 
ሑሰት (Husset) it means that they know what is happening all over the world at the same time from where they are. Like leg of sun (light of sun) , reaching and seeing wherever they want to travel or see things just by staying where they are. That is, the presence of everything you think of as the sun (sunlight) of the feet; It means being able to see what is happening in one place. This title is the last title for the centralists. Saints who have reached this rank are not hidden from them in everything that happens in the world. You can see them all in one place. For example, you know instantly what is happening all over the world at the same time. For the abstract in this title, the Holy Spirit unites them, so they become abstract. Even though they are huge in body, they can pass through it like the light of a mirror without stopping or hindering them. /2 Kings 6:8-13; Isaiah 30:17-21; Acts 5:1-11; 1 Cor 12:1-5/.
These saints can come and visit the world, angels, heaven, living nations, blessed nations. He gives them a light wheel (chariot) and wings.

8. ንጽሕ ልቡና (Pure Hearts)- Perfection 


(Part 4 continues)👇

--- id:1347 | date:2023-06-22T05:51:02 ---
The Ten Spiritual Titles (Levels)

Part 4

8. ንጽሕ ልቡና (Pure Hearts)- Perfection

Pure heart means level of perfection; When a person reaches a pure heart, his soul separates from his body and goes to the world of angels, but his eyes, like any other person, see and his body becomes warm; His eyes are not closed like a dead man's. But his soul will return after spending some time praising God with the angels and being inspired and happy with the delicious song. But the angels do not want this soul to be separated from them. These are likened to a seed that bears 100 (percent) fruit.

The names of pure hearts and virtues are ‘ንጻሬ መላእክት’, 'ተሰጥሞ' and ‘ከዊነ እሳት'. The first is the state of seeing angels, the second is "drowning in the light" which is swimming in the light. As it was said to God, "There is no darkness in you", it means that when the saints reach this level, they will not know darkness, and this light is provided by God.

9 ንጻሬ መላእክት

ንጻሬ መላእክት - means to see angels. One may ask 'Have we not seen angels in this world at the earlier stages like 'lbawe' above? But those who have reached the rank of Lbawe, seeing the angels, do they not know who they are and why they came?  On the other hand, those who have reached the level of angels are entering the angels in their world, and thus they are entering the world of angels through inspiration. These saints go to the world of angels in their souls or in their bodies and visit every city; And they will hear their music. And their thanksgiving is united with the angels, and they give thanks together, saying holy, holy, holy. The subtle angels take on bodies and appear to them in clouds and clouds. They reach the rank of angels. They admire the abode and glory of angels and speak in the language of angels. /11 Cor 6:3; Rev. 12:8-9; 1 Cor 13:1/. This title is superior to Huset. Fathers who reach this rank are hidden from their enemies and demons; They know the secrets of heaven..
 
10     ተሰጥሞ (swim)

As a fish lives drowned in the sea; The conscience of fathers who reach this rank is quiet; They bathe (swim) in light that is supreme, vast, subtle; Their lives will be bright. They will be completely happy. / 2 Cor 6:10; Philip 3:1/ As vultures and eagles fly in the sea of air, as fish swim in the sea, the saints who have drowned and reached the rank swim in the ocean of light above; They float. This ocean of light is the grace of God. Their minds will be bathed in that light. They become perfect and attain purity of heart. / Eph 5:13-14; Revelation 11:12-17; 12:1-5/.
 
'ከዊነ እሳት' it means to become like fire. This is the final level of qualification. When saints reach this rank, they become like fire, their bodies are surrounded by light; They are like fire from their feet to their heads /John 5:5/. Saints of this rank forget their own way of life. And their souls can remain inspired for many days. Because conscience and fathers have been given a pure heart, they reach the level of seeing God (Holy Trinity) in different models and examples. Our Lord said, "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God" (Matthew 5:8). What honor, what knowledge is greater than seeing the Creator; God will explain it to them as much as they can understand it. But God cannot be seen in His nature. /John 1:18/
 
When St. Basilius Zechariah was teaching , insects used to fall down burning on his clothes as if they fall    in fire, this means that these are heretics and demons. the wealth of burning them is to reach this stage. here and it is possible to grow in holiness.

sometimes we all want to be perfect, and it is to say it is possible to grow in holiness. For example, for those who have not started fasting, we should fast on the first day until two, three o'clock, the next day until four o'clock, then until five o'clock. When we arrive at each efforts of steps, we will gradually grow spiritually and be perfect for that level, meaning God will do everything for us.


Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1350 | date:2023-06-23T00:09:41 ---


--- id:1351 | date:2023-06-23T00:09:41 ---


--- id:1352 | date:2023-06-23T00:09:41 ---


--- id:1353 | date:2023-06-23T00:09:49 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Virgin #Mary; the Covenant of Mercy 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, today is the monthly feast of our Lady the Virgin Mary, which is named Covenant of Mercy (ኪዳነ ምህረት). Today we celebrate the Theotokos, who formed an ineffable Covenant of Mercy with the Almighty. We hence send you a lesson on the Theotokos so you can read and participate in the blessings of this day. 

Let us delve into sacred scripture, for in the Psalm of David, chapter 89 verse 3, it was proclaimed: “I have made a covenant with my chosen one.” The Virgin Mary, the unblemished Mother of God, stood as a sentinel of ceaseless prayer upon the hallowed grounds of Golgotha where the precious body of her Son once laid. For fifteen years after our Lord's ascension, she devoted herself, with the ardor of a thousand suns, to the intercession for the salvation of our souls.

Oh, what wondrous tales do the ancient tongues whisper of that fateful day, the sixteenth of February, when the celestial host descended! Led by our fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the holy angels carried the Virgin to the very heavens. She beheld with her immaculate eyes the dwelling places of the prophets and the saints. Her heart overflowed with joy and she magnified the Lord.

But lo, her heart was soon to be stricken with sorrow. The angels showed her the abyss of despair, where the souls of the hapless were enveloped in the shadow of eternal flame. Wretched and forlorn, they cried out. The Virgin's heart, pure as the driven snow, wept for them.

Returning to the sacred earth, near the tomb of her beloved Son, the Virgin implored the Saviour. Her plea was as the sweetest hymn, a balm to the Heavens. She spoke, “By the manger wherein You were cradled, by the swaddling cloth that embraced You, by the very steps I took by Your side through our sojourn, I beseech You, O Lord, hearken to the humble entreaties of Your handmaiden."

Our Lady sought grace for those who hold her dear, who serve in the temples, who clothe themselves in her honor, who tend to the afflicted, who nourish the hungry, and console the mourning. For these acts of kindness render joy unto her heart, and in turn, may they be blessed with graces unimaginable, with glories unseen and unheard by human senses.

Our Lord Jesus Christ, in His infinite mercy, responded, “As surely as I took on flesh to fulfill the yearnings of your heart, everything you ask shall be granted. I, Emmanuel, do solemnly swear, that My covenant shall never be shattered.”

Thus, my brethren, let us be inspired to lives of piety and charity. Our Lady, who gave birth to God in her chaste womb, she, who remains steadfast as a rock, calls us into her fellowship. How magnificent are the fruits of her womb, and oh, how exalted are those who partake in them!

Through these sacred teachings, we are brought closer to salvation. May the Virgin Mary's intercessions be a refuge, and her boundless love guide us through the tempests of this earthly sojourn.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1354 | date:2023-06-23T22:30:22 ---


--- id:1355 | date:2023-06-23T22:30:22 ---


--- id:1356 | date:2023-06-23T22:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #God listening to #prayers

Question: Does God listen to prayers? Why are some so successful and other not? Why is it that no matter how much they cry/pray, they're not successful?  

Answer: In the shadowed halls of the deepest reflections of the human spirit, there resounds a question, both ancient and profound, that beckons the attention of the earnest seeker. With hearts aflutter and souls yearning for the embrace of the divine, we mortals oft implore, "Does the Lord, in His majesty, hearken unto our prayers?" This question, akin to the ceaseless murmur of waves upon the shore, is as ancient as the lament of fallen Adam.

Let us, in humble obedience and trembling reverence, glean wisdom from the Holy Scriptures. For the sacred Word proclaims in Matthew 7:7, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." Lo! How merciful is the Almighty, whose ears are ever attuned to the suppliant's cry!

Yet, we must fathom the depth and breadth of prayer. Forsooth, it is a tapestry woven of thanksgiving and supplication. As we thank our Lord for the blessings showered upon us, we beseech His grace for fortitude in our travails. When, in the freshness of morn, we speak, "Blessed be Thy Name, O Lord, for driving back the dark and bathing us in Thy radiant light," we tender our gratitude whilst praying for His blessings to rain down upon the day.

Let us heed the words of our Savior in Matthew 6:9-13, where He taught us to pray, “Our Father.” Behold the tenderness of His exhortation, for our entreaties ascend not to a distant and indifferent sovereign, but to our heavenly Father. As a father shows compassion to his children, so the Lord shows compassion to those who fear Him.

But, brothers and sisters in Christ, let it not be forgotten that the sincerity of heart is a crucial vessel for our prayers. For the Scriptures implore us to forgive, that we may be forgiven, and to harbor love in the sanctuary of our hearts. Many a prayer is cast asunder for it is borne upon the tainted winds of rancor, whilst those anointed with love find refuge in the embrace of the Almighty.

Contemplate the prayers of Moses, the friend of God. When he pleaded before the Lord, the Red Sea turned into walls and the mountains fled. These marvels were fruits borne out of humility and unyielding faith.

Likewise, let us invoke the blessed mother Yostina, whose pious supplications were received by the Almighty, as chronicled in the sacred text, Sanksar. Truly, the fulfillment of prayers rests not upon the whims of the Lord, but upon the sincerity and purity with which they are offered.

The fathers of old, in their wisdom, declared that prayers, pure and untainted by worldly malice, find favor in the eyes of the Lord. It is not that the Almighty does not hear, but that our prayers are oftentimes like seeds sown amongst thorns; they grow but bear no fruit. For hearts laden with vengeance and bitterness cannot harvest the fruits of the Lord's bounty.

If, then, you wish your cries to breach the heavens and reverberate within the halls of the Almighty, cleanse thine hearts of malice, embrace thy brethren in love, and kneel with humility and reverence. In doing so, your prayers shall be as sweet incense to the Lord.

May the Grace of God guide us to walk in righteousness, to shun that which tarnishes the soul, and to ensure our prayers are as pure as the first fallen snow. May He grant us the strength to be heirs to His Eternal Kingdom, where praises resound through endless ages. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1360 | date:2023-06-24T22:30:48 ---


--- id:1361 | date:2023-06-24T22:30:48 ---


--- id:1362 | date:2023-06-24T22:30:48 ---


--- id:1363 | date:2023-06-24T22:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the benefits of regularly partaking from the #Eucharist. 

The Eucharist, the most sacred of sacraments, as the divine banquet; whereon the Lord’s table is adorned with the Manna from Heaven, the Holy Body, and the Precious Blood of our Saviour. In regularly partaking of this divine sustenance, we are called to a renewal of faith, the forging of an ineffable bond with the Divine, and the fortification of our spirit.

First, let our eyes gaze upon the sanctity of purity and cleanliness as prerequisites to partake of this sacred offering. To approach the table of the Lord, we must be clad in the radiant vestments of repentance and humility. Like the Bride awaiting the Bridegroom, our souls must be pure, ready to receive Him who is the Word made flesh.

As one imbibes the Precious Blood, like a vine, he must draw nourishment from it. For, the Scripture doth proclaim, "I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me." (John 15:1-5). In communion, we become one with Christ, and our souls entwine with His, like branches to the vine, drawing sustenance for the bearing of good fruits.

But let us also cast our gaze upon the Cross. In this sacrament, the boundless love of God is made manifest, through His Son’s supreme sacrifice. How unfathomable is the love that God hath for us, that He should send His only begotten Son to partake in suffering and death so that we might be free! The blood that was shed at Calvary cries out for our redemption, and in partaking of this Blood, we plead with God for His mercy, forgiveness, and grace.

Moreover, bribed members, consider that in the Eucharist, our sins, though confessed and repented for, are washed anew. For the Body and Blood of Christ hold the power to cleanse us of sins that may have slipped from our memory or have been hidden by the deceit of the Evil One. Through this sacrament, our souls are cleansed from the stains of iniquity, and we are rendered more worthy to stand before the throne of God.

By regularly receiving the Holy Eucharist, we are endowed with the grace to face the tribulations of this world. Christ proclaimed, “In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world” (John 16:33). Through His triumph over death, sin, and Satan, we too are made conquerors. He beckons us to join Him in victory and sit beside Him on His glorious throne (Revelation 3:21).

Let us, therefore, beloved of Christ, clothe ourselves not merely in garments of fabric but in the Holy Spirit. Let our speech, our deeds, and our hearts reflect the Divine grace that has been bestowed upon us through the Eucharist. May it serve as our armor, our sustenance, and our solace. And may we strive always to abide in Him, as He abides in us.

And so, beloved members, let us march forward with renewed vigor and ardor, shedding sloth and worldly concerns. Let the seekers of wisdom come, as the Scripture urges, “Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled. Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding” (Proverbs 9:5-6). With every breath and every heartbeat, let us draw nearer to our Saviour, partaking of His Body and Blood, until the day we are called home to be with Him eternally.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1369 | date:2023-06-25T22:10:45 ---


--- id:1370 | date:2023-06-25T22:10:45 ---


--- id:1371 | date:2023-06-25T22:11:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Archangel St. #Gabriel 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, today is the monthly feast if St. Gabriel and so we send you the bellow writing so you can partake of this day's blessings. 

Gabriel, whose name from yonder Heavens is an incantation unto itself, embodies the clarion voice of the Lord, signifying “Strength of God.” This celestial herald, with the countenance of a thousand suns and wings unfurled across the firmament, was chosen amongst the angelic throng for a divine purpose. 'Twas on a blessed Sunday, when the stars bowed in silence, that Gabriel defied the darkness of deceit that dared to tarnish God's creation. In this eternal struggle, his palm was seared with purifying flame, a testament to his unyielding devotion.

Thereupon, the Almighty, in His boundless wisdom, did elect Gabriel as the messenger, to deliver tidings of great portent to the Virgin Mary. “Hail, thou that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee,” did Gabriel proclaim, as celestial light cascaded upon Mary, the blessed among women. Thus, the Annunciation was etched into the tapestry of time, woven with the golden threads of divine decree.

The echoes of yore bring forth the tale of Ananias, Azarias, and Misael, brave souls cast into a furnace of fury by Nebuchadnezzar, whose hubris did defy the Heavens. Clad in innocence, their spirits unyielding to despair, they turned their gaze to the Heavens, invoking the intercession of their Creator. Lo, Gabriel descended upon this fiery crucible, his countenance casting shadows upon the raging inferno. His voice, like the murmur of a gentle stream, infused courage into their hearts, as his celestial aura extinguished the flames.

Mighty Gabriel, clad in resplendence, waved his staff and parted the roaring fire, evoking the parting of the Red Sea by Moses through God's grace. The sacred triumvirate, singing praises, tread through the embers unscathed. “Blessed art Thou, O Lord, God of our fathers,” their voices harmonized with the heavenly choirs, a chorus of salvation.

King Nebuchadnezzar beheld this divine spectacle in awe, as the fourth figure within the inferno appeared likened unto a Son of God. His heart, once stone, became flesh, and he cried out in jubilation, acknowledging the sovereignty of the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

Ye humble souls, take heed, for in the hour of our lamentation and tribulation, if we call upon the Holy Archangel Gabriel with hearts unburdened by sin, he shall arrive with divine swiftness. His presence is as a fortress, impregnable and steadfast. However, should we tread the path of iniquity, his countenance remains beyond our grasp, for his devotion is eternally to the Holy Name.

Therefore, let us be emboldened by Psalm 91:11, “For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.” Let us be vigilant and steadfast in our faith, calling upon the Archangel Gabriel to shield and guide us through the fires of this earthly sojourn, towards the eternal embrace of the Almighty.

May the blessings of the Holy Archangel Gabriel, protector, and messenger, grace your journey, as you, in sacred steps, walk the path ordained by Heaven’s boundless love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1374 | date:2023-06-26T21:31:56 ---
https://www.tiktok.com/@orthodoxqnas/video/7249152887039823146?is_from_webapp=1&sender_device=pc&web_id=7180849108143654443

--- id:1382 | date:2023-06-27T22:42:26 ---


--- id:1383 | date:2023-06-27T22:42:26 ---


--- id:1384 | date:2023-06-27T22:42:26 ---


--- id:1385 | date:2023-06-27T22:43:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the holiness of our #Lady the #Virgin #Mary. 

In the resplendent tapestry of God’s Creation, there exists a luminary surpassing all luminaries, a blessed vessel more sacrosanct than the Cherubim and Seraphim - this, my brethren, is none other than Our Lady, the Theotokos, the Holy Virgin Mary, whom the Creator Himself has chosen as His most hallowed tabernacle. In her, grace, humility, and obedience converge to compose a symphony of Divine Love, where her voice tenderly whispers, “Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word.” (Luke 1:38).

It is vital to comprehend the awe and reverence the heavens bear towards the Blessed Virgin. In the realm of Angels, who partake in the ceaseless singing of the Divine Liturgy and maintain their resplendent purity, there is a profound veneration for her who bore the Uncontainable within her womb. These spiritual beings, who wing across the heavens, and whose gaze pierces through the eons, veil their countenance in her sacred presence. It is narrated by the holy prophets how the Cherubim cover their faces with their wings in reverential fear (Isaiah 6:2); yet Our Lady, blessed among women, cradled in her bosom He before whom the Angels tremble.

Contemplate, beloved brethren, the boundless wonder encapsulated in the incarnation of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ! The One who was before time, the Alpha and Omega, He who stretched out the heavens and fathomless seas, deigned to be ensconced in human flesh. In this hallowed mystery, the Virgin Mary’s womb became the resplendent chamber of the Eternal King. He who sustains all creation with His mighty word, received sustenance from her breast.

The ineffable grace and benevolence of the Lord, who chose Bethlehem's humble manger as His birthplace and a cave as His sacred cradle. Amongst the lowing of cattle and the soft whispers of the night breeze, the Holy Virgin beheld the countenance of the Salvation of the World. In her tender embrace, the Word was made flesh. The resounding alleluias of the angelic hosts and the shepherd’s innocent joy - all these she treasured in her heart.

Through her sojourn, the Theotokos demonstrated the zenith of maternal love, virtue, and humility. From Bethlehem to Egypt, she braved peril and uncertainty, safeguarding the incarnate God. At the foot of the Cross, upon the hill of Golgotha, her heart was pierced by the sword of sorrow, as foretold by the righteous Simeon. There she stood, a mother beside her dying Son, a symbol of unfathomable love and agony. 

Her sanctity was not borne of vainglory or haughtiness, but of an inimitable humility and grace. When Archangel Gabriel heralded the tidings of her divine calling, she yielded herself as the Lord’s humble handmaiden. Her response, “Behold the handmaid of the Lord,” encapsulates her unwavering devotion and submission to the will of the Almighty.

Let us then, beloved members, turn our gaze towards the Holy Theotokos, beseeching her intercession. May we glean from her life the virtues of humility, obedience, and love. In our earthly pilgrimage, may she be the guiding star that leads us to the embrace of her Son, our Redeemer.

Ponder upon her holiness and stand in awe, for words are but a frail vessel to encompass the grandeur of the Virgin Mary, the true Ark of the Covenant, the Holy of Holies. Through her, the world was blessed with the true Manna, the Bread of Life, Jesus Christ our Lord. 

Unto her be praise, honor, and thanksgiving throughout the ages. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1393 | date:2023-06-28T22:31:29 ---


--- id:1394 | date:2023-06-28T22:31:29 ---


--- id:1395 | date:2023-06-28T22:31:29 ---


--- id:1396 | date:2023-06-28T22:31:35 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the first #Church building; Holy Temple of Saint #Mary

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we celebrate the building of the first church - let us venture into the divine tapestry of the first church built in honor of the Holy Mother Saint Mary in Caesarea, Chalcedon. Saint Paul and Saint Barnabas, those stalwart Apostles, were the heralds who sowed the seeds of faith amongst the gentiles. With their hearts aflame, they fervently preached the Good Word. Yet, the believers yearned for a sanctuary to partake in the Holy Communion. The Apostles, led by an unyielding devotion, sought the divine intervention of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.

Through the ethereal mist of prayer and 'Subae' , a miraculous revelation embraced the Apostles. Summoned from the corners of the earth, they were lifted upon clouds and converged in the land of Philippians, where the Lord bestowed upon them a celestial decree. He ordained that churches in the name of His Holy Mother Mary shall grace the four corners of the world. The trinity of stones, a divine manifestation of the Holy Trinity, took form and were consecrated as the foundation of this sacred abode. 

With renewed clarity, we understand that the measurements – twenty-four cubits in height and twelve cubits in width – symbolize not only the 24 prophets and 24 heavenly priests but also the twelve Apostles. These three stones also epitomize the sacred Arks of the Covenant of Adam, Moses, and Jesus Christ, encompassing the harmony of creation, the Law, and redemption through grace.

With heavenly resplendence, the Lord then anointed Saint Peter as an Archbishop, bestowing upon him the authority to shepherd the faithful across the world. This moment, marked by angelic and earthly acclamation, was sealed with the descent of heavenly bread and the cup. The Holy Communion was performed, sanctifying the Apostles and ordaining them to carry forth the Divine Liturgy.

In this exalted house, the righteous Archbishop Basilios, with a heart full of devotion, sought to venerate the Holy Mother with a portrait. Yet, let this be a reminder of the humility required in service, for the first plate acquired was tainted by a hardened heart. The Holy Mother herself appeared in a vision to Basilios, guiding him to a sacred image, which when placed in the church, emanated healing water and oil, a testament to Her grace and mercy.

Alas, not all who partook of these blessings were deemed worthy, as illustrated by the account of a woman stained by betrayal and bloodshed. Her sins, laid bare before the righteous Basilios, revealed the necessity of repentance and living in accordance with God’s law. She stands as a stark reminder that divine grace is intrinsically bound to the purity of our hearts and our submission to the will of the Almighty.
Let us not forget, dear members, that this blessed day on which the first Church of the Holy Mother Saint Mary was erected is not just a day of joy, but also a day of reflection and commitment. It is a summons from the divine to construct sanctuaries within our own souls, edifices of faith and devotion, to carry forth the unwavering light of our Holy Mother and Savior into the world. As the Apostles were commanded to cease from handy work on this day, so too should we dedicate this day to prayer, to acts of charity, and to the joyful singing of hymns in honor of the Holy Mother

On  june 28th, let us, children of God, celebrate this consecrated day with hearts ablaze with devotion, gratitude, and humility. As we pay homage to the construction of the first Church of the Holy Mother Saint Mary, may we build within our hearts a sanctuary, pure and unwavering, dedicated to the service and love of our Lord and His Holy Mother.

May the divine grace of the Holy Trinity and the Holy Mother Saint Mary guide our steps, and may we, as humble vessels of faith, be eternally bound in their loving embrace. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1398 | date:2023-06-29T22:02:04 ---


--- id:1399 | date:2023-06-29T22:02:04 ---


--- id:1400 | date:2023-06-29T22:02:04 ---


--- id:1402 | date:2023-06-29T22:16:46 ---
👉🏾 About St. #George 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, today is the monthly feast of St. George in the EOTC and so we send you this short writing for you to learn about the life of this great saint and martyr. 

St. George is a Christian saint who is widely known for his courage, steadfast faith, and unwavering devotion to God. He was born in 280 A.D. in the city of Capadocia, which was part of the Eastern Empire in Asia Minor. He came from a wealthy and noble Christian family and followed the usual career path of young nobleman by joining the Roman army.

St. George's ability and charm quickly brought him promotion within the army, and eventually, he was made a tribune or an officer in the Imperial Guard by the Emperor. According to one story, he was a friend of Constantine, another officer who later became the first Christian emperor. The legend says that St. George accompanied Constantine to Britain and visited some holy places, including Glastonbury and Caerleon. When he returned to Nicomedia, the capital of the Eastern Empire, he encountered the fierce storm of persecution against Christians.

Diocletian, the emperor at the time, issued a formal edict against Christians on February 23, 303 A.D., which was the feast of Termhlalia. The edict mandated that all churches should be leveled to the ground, all sacred books burned, all Christians who held any honorable rank were to be degraded and deprived of civil rights, and all Christians who were not officials were to be reduced to slavery.

Despite the persecution, St. George boldly stood up for his faith. He pushed his way through the market to read the proclamation in front of the awe-stricken crowd and then deliberately tore down the Imperial edict and threw it away. This act of defiance resulted in his arrest and subsequent encounter with Diocletian.

The Emperor tried to seduce St. George by promising him a higher position in the empire, but St. George remained steadfast in his faith. Diocletian then began to threaten him with unbearable tortures that he would inflict on him. St. George refused to renounce his faith, even in the face of torture, and eventually was imprisoned.

St. George's chastity and suffering are two prominent aspects of his story. Diocletian arranged for a very beautiful woman to spend the night with him in prison to try to debauch him. St. George, who could only look forward to heavenly joy, began to pray and within a short while managed to swing her heart to the Christian faith. She seriously began to inquire about salvation, and by morning she declared that she found her true Bridegroom, Jesus Christ. With great courage, she announced her Christianity to the Emperor and his men and joined the other saintly martyrs.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1403 | date:2023-06-29T22:16:53 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

As for his suffering, the tortures that were applied to St. George are too numerous to mention in depth, but it is worth noting his utmost love for Christ. His body was torn by a special instrument that had metallic teeth, and our Lord Jesus rose him after his death, leading to the conversion of many pagans. He was put in active lime, and water was poured on it. Again the Lord returned him back to life. The Emperor became very agitated, imagining that the Saint was using magic. He called his top magician, Athanasius, and requested him to prepare a lethal poison to kill St. George.
The Saint signed over the cup with the sign of the cross before drinking it, and of course, no harm came to him. The Emperor's counselors informed him that St. George's magic was, in fact, contained in the sign of the Cross itself. Another cup was also given to the Saint, but this time with his hands tied behind his back. The Saint signed it by his head, saying: "shall I drink it from here or here or here or here!!!"

As St. George stood before the emperor and his court, he was given one last chance to renounce his Christian faith and offer sacrifice to the idols. The emperor promised him great rewards, honors, and privileges if he would do so. But St. George refused, declaring that he would never deny his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

In a final act of defiance, the emperor ordered St. George to be beheaded. The saint willingly accepted his fate and went to his death with courage and grace. He is said to have uttered a prayer to God, thanking Him for the privilege of dying for the faith.

After his martyrdom, St. George's reputation as a courageous and holy man quickly spread throughout the Christian world. Churches were built in his honor, and his feast day was celebrated on April 23rd. He became known as the patron saint of soldiers, knights, and all who defend the faith.

Today, the legend of St. George and the dragon is still celebrated in many cultures around the world. It has become a symbol of strength, courage, and the triumph of good over evil. The story of St. George reminds us that even in the face of persecution and adversity, we can remain steadfast in our faith and trust in God's love and mercy.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1405 | date:2023-06-30T22:30:10 ---
👉🏾 About #marriage

👉 Question #1: What is the basic purpose of marriage?

👉 Question #2: Is there a difference between getting married in the Holy Communion and getting married in a secular marriage system?

✍Answer ፦  The Christian way of life is twofold. One is through holy matrimony and the other is living in monasticism. Both require cleanliness. This means the virginity of the body and the purity of repentance. Since this lesson is about marriage as mentioned in the question , we will focus on the direction of salvation in marriage.  Let's look at the meaning and purpose of marriage below:

Marriage: Marriage is a wonderful mystery in which the union of the bridegroom and the bride takes place. This union though marriage is celebrated by a ceremony that takes place in the church with a sacrament which marks the joining, uniting, oneness of the couple.. "A man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh" (Mathew 19:5). Therefore, marriage is a great mystery in which he and she will not think of anyone for love other than each other. From the day of the marriage, they will have children, share property, and live as long as God allows them.

Marriage is established mainly based on 3 purposes (pillars); These are 1. to help each other, 2. to have a childreen, 3. to be saved from adultery. The goal is to live and walk the path of righteousness as a one heart, one word, in complete unity, and togetherness.  

1. Helping each other: "The Lord God said: It is not good for man to be alone. Let us create a suitable helper for him" (Genesis 2:18). Spiritual marriage is a gift that helps us in the Christian journey of life. In general, the mainstay of marriage is the genuine affection and love between the spouses. "The two will become one flesh" (Matthew 19.5). According to this divine word, both spouses put the needs of their spouse before their own, caring for each other, and honoring God.

2. To have children (to continue generations): "God blessed them and said to them, multiply and fill the earth and subdue it..." (Genesis 1:28) God did not leave us to live without law and order; He said to multiply after He blessed Adam and Eve in Paradise. If He blessed them, it means that He liked the marriage, that is, their union and unity. This also refers to legal marriage. He was present in heaven then and blessed their marriage, and today He is present to bless our marriage in the holy church where his holy body and precious blood were poured out.

3. To be saved from adultery: "For the danger of adultery, let each man have his own wife, and let each women have her own husband" (Cor 7:2); If a person does not live bound by a holy marriage, it is inevitable that he will be tempted by lustful flesh. When we live in religion, it is important to stay away from adultery, so marriage is one way to overcome this temptation.
Based on these three main goals, the goal of marriage is to walk together in a righteous way and gain eternal life and inherit the kingdom of heaven. 

Therefore, since Orthodox married life is a life lived in a spiritual system, it means that the covenant marriage system should be started in the Christian system in the church. This is a ritual of the church that is done with a gift or sacrament.

The difference between sacramental marriage and secular marriage

There are three parts to a sacramental marriage; The couple and God! Without any of these, it is not considered a marriage. This is the mystery in which our flesh becomes flesh and our bones become bones in the Holy Eucharist. “This bone is of my bone; It is through the Holy Communion that God's statement that "the flesh is my flesh" becomes a reality. As it is written, "They will both become one flesh" during the holy marriage ceremony, the conclusion of the great secret of the two bodies becoming physical unity and spiritual unity is the Holy Body and His Precious Blood of Christ. (Mark 10:8).

(to be continued )👇

--- id:1406 | date:2023-06-30T22:34:47 ---
(continued part)👆👇

Therefore, the reason why we make our marriage to be a sacrament in the church is that our Lord Jesus Christ can be the head and center of our spiritual efforts in our married life. St. Paul said, "This mystery is great; But I say this about Christ and the Church" (Eph 5:32) because it is a sign of union between the divine and the flesh. All this is possible only when we receive invisible grace through visible service and live in spiritual discipline and conduct to the best of our ability. 

In general, the Holy Communion is what makes our marriage real and transforms us into a new body and we become one flesh. But in a worldly marriage system that is different from this, there is no salvation and blessing because it is a wedding in which Christ is not celebrated. In addition, the mystery of the bride and groom becoming one will not be fulfilled, and even after marriage, these couples cannot be called one but two. Moreover, by not doing this, they will lose the blessing and grace that they could have received. 

However, as it is said, "My people have perished for lack of knowledge" (Hosea 4:6), perhaps the believers, unknowingly or knowingly, walking on the path of destruction, if there are those who have performed their marriage in a worldly system, they can repent and be united in the Holy Communion and begin their righteous journey for the rest of their days.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1411 | date:2023-07-02T23:12:01 ---


--- id:1412 | date:2023-07-02T23:12:01 ---


--- id:1413 | date:2023-07-02T23:12:11 ---
👉🏾 About #marriage and the holy #Eucharist 

👉Question: Does marital status determine whether to receive Holy Communion? For example, if we are single, married, what if our partner is not willing? Or what should I do if my fiance refuses to marry me in the sacrament?

✍Answer: One of the sacrements of the New Testament is Christ's holy flesh and His precious blood. We have said that the special gift of the Holy Spirit that we have been blessed with since the birth of a boy on the 40th day and the birth of a girl on the 80th day is the food of eternal life. To separate from this is to die although we seem alive simply because we breath. Our body: If we lose  food for a few days or even for few hours for some people, it is definitely not possible to stay alive. This is one of the common weaknesses of the body where we lose our fleshly existence. Likewise, if the soul loses Christ's holy flesh and precious blood, it dies and has no life. It means that we have killed it. Therefore, in order to eat this eternal life, to drink that gives eternal life, we should learn what kind of system and what kind of spiritual preparation we should follow. We are commanded by God to live a Christian life, of which the Holy Eucharist is the foundation. Any teaching that keeps us away by threatening and exaggerating for other reasons is false teaching and should be avoided. 

Apostle St. Paul said that if we eat and drink the ultimate food of the soul without preparation and understanding, it will be a debt to us. This means that it is necessary to always have a life prepared for repentance and to accept those who are counselors in the affairs of our souls, the fathers of the church whom God has appointed as our servants and shepherds. In other words, we are commanded to always receive with repentance, so that we do not make this mistake that St. Paul wrote about (so that we do not receive without deserving or understanding this), but there is no occasion where we are commanded to depart from this mystery, not even for a single day.

Therefore, for those who are said to be before marriage, as we mentioned above, we should realize that we should continue to accept what we received in our childhood, that started from the time of Christianity,  until the end of our lives. But we should do this without committing any shame or sin as that is the only thing which keeps us away from the Holy Communion. Everyone knows what sin or shame is that keeps us away from the Holy Communion, even a child knows. There is no one who does not know the type of sin from the smallest to the highest level of sin. Murder, adultery, adultery, all these seeming sins can keep you away from the sacrament. But through repentant and reprimanded, you can continue the communion by repenting and being mentored and taught by their penitent father. 

Back to the question, it is to say that we should do this throughout our life, and it is not a matter of martial status. Both the male and female start participating in this sacrement at the time of their baptism and actively participate alone until they reach maturity age. After that, the man chooses someone who resembles him in his spiritual life and the woman chooses someone who resembles her in her spiritual life and they get married and continue with the Holy Communion together. Even those who are not married in the Holy Communion, without having this opportunity, come to repentance and they, too, can continue their holy purpose that they have abandoned. Because the Church has made a system for us, it has reconciliation for all from her creator.

To be continued 👇

--- id:1414 | date:2023-07-02T23:12:32 ---
(Continued part)👆👇.
 
In general, the sacrament does not depend on the state of marriage; After all, the Holy Church has never commanded us to stay away from the Holy Communion for a single day until marriage. This is an attitude that some people have brought by habit, or even counselors and teachers have been absorbed in the people's system, not God's system; and we need to understand that it is not the correct teaching of the Church. Besides, it is not an honor for us to continue to be a father of repentance for people living far from the Holy Communion, but a great shame. Why? The first and foremost task of a penitent father is to teach his penitent children, equip them for penance and Holy Communion, and watch over them to live steadfastly in this spiritual life. But as we can see what is happening in practice, does everyone who is a Christian receive the Holy flesh and the precious blood of Christ?  Not really.
 
On the other hand although it is not comparable with our faith, when we see other faith institutions around the world who claim to be in Christianity, even those who do not believe in partaking fekm His holy flesh and precious blood do not leave without receiving 'in rememberence' each time they come to their church, never. Our church, however, does not consider the Holy Communion as a memorial, and not do not take this mystery simply or boldly. Rather, we receive it believing that it is the real holy flesh and his noble blood that our Creator shed for us through all that suffering on Friday; and we accept it in the fear of God . This is Christian ethics. As Christian ethics, we correct our wrongdoing and accept it through a life of repentance. So, the only thing that may keeps us far from the Holy Communion before and during marriage is our own sin.

So the answer to the question is that if there is a time when we are different from Holy Communion, the biggest thing is our own reason. Thi may be, either we didn't get real lesson of the Orthodox Church; Or that we are not willing to repent for what we committed a sin; Or that we have not decided to stop that sin. But, in general, there is no time to deprive us the Holy Communion except in this way.

(to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1415 | date:2023-07-03T22:01:01 ---


--- id:1416 | date:2023-07-03T22:01:01 ---


--- id:1417 | date:2023-07-03T22:01:01 ---


--- id:1418 | date:2023-07-03T22:02:02 ---
👉🏾 About #prayer 

👉 Question: How to develop a deep prayer life and strengthen my spiritual life every day; How can I get closer to God?

Answer: In the pursuit of a profound prayer life and the strengthening of your spiritual journey, it is crucial to approach this endeavor with unwavering commitment, a sincere heart, and a deep understanding of its significance. Let us delve into several key principles, which can serve as guiding lights on the path to experiencing a deeper connection with God through prayer.

First and foremost, prayer should be recognized as a sacred conversation with the Creator—a transcendent opportunity to engage in a direct dialogue with the Almighty. It is not a mere ritualistic duty or an obligation to be fulfilled mechanically; rather, it is an invitation to commune intimately with the divine. In embracing this understanding, one's love for prayer will flourish, and the recognition of its indispensable role in nurturing spiritual well-being will deepen. Let prayer be seen as the very essence of life itself, for just as a person ceases to breathe without air, one who neglects prayer becomes spiritually lifeless.

To truly enter into the spirit of prayer, it is essential to direct our thoughts and intentions towards God. Begin by expressing heartfelt gratitude for His abundant blessings in your life—recognize the gifts of love, grace, and mercy bestowed upon you. Humbly seek His guidance and assistance in all aspects of your existence, acknowledging your dependence upon Him. Remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, who admonished us to "watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation." Approach prayer with unwavering sincerity, knowing that it strengthens your resolve, deepens your understanding of God's will, and helps you align your life with His divine purpose.

In order to nurture your spiritual life, it is beneficial to establish clear goals in your prayer practice. Take time to reflect upon your purpose and aspirations in your journey as a Christian. Identify areas in need of growth and development, and bring them before God in prayer. Focus your prayers on cultivating virtues such as love, patience, humility, and forgiveness. Seek to deepen your faith, exploring the mysteries of divine truth and opening your heart to receive spiritual illumination. Embrace a spirit of service, praying for opportunities to extend compassion, kindness, and generosity to those in need. By establishing such intentional goals, you infuse your prayers with purpose and align them with your desired spiritual development.

Consistency in prayer is vital. Establish dedicated times each day, free from distractions, to commune with God. Find a peaceful and secluded space where you can withdraw from the noise and busyness of the world, creating an atmosphere conducive to deepening your connection with the divine. By adhering to a regular prayer routine, you establish a rhythm that reinforces your spiritual bond and fosters a sense of discipline in your spiritual life. Whether it be in the early morning, before meals, or before retiring to rest, choose a time that best suits your circumstances and commit to it unwaveringly.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:1419 | date:2023-07-03T22:06:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

While consistency is crucial, it is equally important to approach prayer with a genuine spirit of engagement and authenticity. Avoid the temptation to recite prayers mechanically, without heartfelt contemplation. Instead, strive to imbue each prayer with fervor, sincerity, and attentive presence. Cultivate an inner disposition of openness and receptivity, allowing your prayers to flow from the depths of your being. Approach God as a loving Father who longs to hear from His children, and pour out your heart before Him with childlike trust and vulnerability. By engaging in prayer with such authenticity, you create the space for deep transformation and spiritual growth to take root within you.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1422 | date:2023-07-05T22:40:01 ---


--- id:1423 | date:2023-07-05T22:41:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Mystery of #Incarnation

Let us delve into the profound mystery of the incarnation, a cornerstone of our faith. In this divine revelation, we proclaim that the Word, one of the Holy Trinity, assumed perfect humanity to reveal His boundless love and redeem the world. He was born of the Holy Virgin Mary, fulfilling the prophecies of God's love for mankind, who found themselves ensnared in sin, burdened by their fallen nature, and oppressed under the dominion of demons. As the Apostle Paul declares, "But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law" (Galatians 4:4).

The Word, the invisible Divinity by nature, became visible through the mystical incarnation. The intangible was grasped, the unbeatable was wounded, the immortal experienced death in the flesh, the one who knew no hunger or thirst became hungry and thirsty, and the one without need was satisfied. In this union, the flesh was infused with divinity, and the eternal Word became known as the firstborn, for it merged with the eternal Divinity. As it is written, "Behold, the man has become like one of us" (Genesis 3:22), and thus He was counted as the Son of God the Father and the Son of the Virgin Mary. The Son born of a Virgin is rightfully called the Son of God the Father. Hence, due to this inseparable unity, the Orthodox faith asserts the following teachings regarding the incarnation:

1. Without Change: When the Word becomes flesh, it does not undergo any alteration or modification. Just as the Scriptures affirm, "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever" (Hebrews 13:8). "With whom there is no variation or shadow due to change" (James 1:17). As the Lord Himself proclaims, "I am the Lord, I do not change" (Malachi 3:6).

2. Without Division: The Divinity did not abandon the body after accomplishing the salvation of the world. He did not separate Himself from the flesh, as confirmed in the words of the prophet Jeremiah, "Have I not preserved them in my dwelling?" (Jeremiah 17:16).

3. Without Confusion: The two natures, divine and human, are not blended into one another but exist in a perfect union. Therefore, when it is said that "this is my body," it signifies a complete and indivisible union without any shame.

4. Without Separation: The divinity and the flesh remain distinct, without mixing or leaving their respective essences. The Word did not abandon His divinity, nor did the flesh cease to be flesh. Rather, the flesh was divinely glorified, and the Word became flesh, displaying a perfect union.

To summarize, the will of the Word, which cannot be violated or augmented, is the same as the will of the flesh. It is a union of two wills without confusion—a perfect harmony of wills. 

Furthermore, our mystical incarnation doctrine asserts that God was born in the flesh of the Virgin Mary, and she is rightly called the Theotokos, the Mother of God, for she gave birth to God in the flesh (Luke 1:35). As the devil, disguised as a serpent, separated mankind from God, the Lord chose a mysterious plan that rendered the crafty wisdom of the devil futile. The mystery through which He accomplished the salvation of the world surpasses the wisdom with which He created it. He chose a virgin and, from her flesh and soul, was born in a humble stable, crucified naked, and thus saved the world.

When we declare that God became man, it does not diminish or increase His divinity. As the Scriptures affirm, "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever" (Hebrews 13:8). He remains the eternal Lord of all (Psalm 101:27).

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1424 | date:2023-07-05T22:43:01 ---
(Continued)

In His incarnation, Christ assumed our humanity to become the Redeemer of humankind, to raise the fallen, to seek the lost, and to serve as our perfect example. He came to reveal His immeasurable love, to redeem us from sin and death, and to restore us to life. The Son, born of the Virgin Mary, fasted, was baptized, preached the Gospel, and was crucified on Calvary, giving His life for our salvation. On the third day, He triumphed over death, and after forty days, He ascended into heaven. He will come again, bringing perfection and glory. When He returns, all those who pierced Him will behold His majesty.

The teachings of the Orthodox Tewahedo Church concerning the mystical incarnation elucidate our belief in the unity of the divine and human natures in Christ. Although some may label us as Monophysites, associating our Church with a belief in the mingling or absorption of the natures, our faith is not Monophysite in nature. Such assertions stem from misunderstandings and misinterpretations of the teachings of revered figures like Adeshke, who, despite his devoutness, deviated from the Orthodox understanding of the Trinity. Scholars often recount his teachings as examples of misguided monastic fervor rather than authoritative theological positions.

When the Orthodox Tewahedo Church proclaims "Tewahedo" (Oneness), it signifies the unity of the two natures without one destroying or consuming the other. The unity of their essence is not singular but composite. St. Cyril of Alexandria, a renowned Church Father, unveils the mystery of Christ's incarnation as the mystery of salvation, affirming that before Christ became man, He was God, and when He assumed humanity, He remained fully God.

In contemplating the mystery of the incarnation, we are humbled by the profound love and mercy of God. Through His voluntary self-emptying, the Word became flesh to dwell among us, revealing the path of salvation and offering us the opportunity for eternal communion with Him. Let us meditate on the incarnation, embracing its depth and significance, as we marvel at the infinite wisdom and grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1426 | date:2023-07-06T22:00:46 ---


--- id:1427 | date:2023-07-06T22:00:46 ---


--- id:1428 | date:2023-07-06T22:00:46 ---


--- id:1429 | date:2023-07-06T22:01:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson on the Birth of St. #John the Baptist

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, 

Today is the annual feast of the birth of Saint John the Baptist. Let us delve into the depth of his life and draw valuable lessons for our spiritual journey.

In the pages of Holy Scripture, the Gospel according to St. Matthew recounts the extraordinary events surrounding the birth and ministry of St. John. As St. Matthew writes, in those days, the voice of St. John the Baptist resounded through the wilderness of Judea, proclaiming with urgency, "The kingdom of heaven is near, repent!" (Matthew 3:2). Such was the resolute conviction with which he preached, invoking the words of the prophet Isaiah, "Prepare the way of the Lord" (Isaiah 40:3).

Now, dear brethren, let us reflect upon the essence of St. John's message. In the New Testament, it is God Himself who, in His infinite mercy, offers true forgiveness of sins. It is He who beckons us to prepare our hearts for this divine forgiveness, directing us to the true Father who possesses the power to absolve all transgressions. St. John, in his ministry, baptized with water for repentance, inviting people to a life of genuine contrition. However, he proclaimed, "But the one who comes after me will baptize you with the Holy Spirit" (Matthew 3:11). He revealed that the Messiah, our Lord Jesus Christ, would restore humanity to the status of God's beloved children, emancipating them from sin's grip.

In the depth of his wisdom, St. John acknowledged his own unworthiness to even bear the shoes of the One who was to come. He declared, "He who comes after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire" (Matthew 3:11). St. John recognized his role as the humble precursor to the One who would effect a profound transformation in the lives of believers. With an evocative metaphor, he compared the Lord to a winnower who would thoroughly cleanse the threshing floor, gathering the wheat into the barn while burning the chaff with unquenchable fire (Matthew 3:12).

Therefore, dear members, let us take heed of St. John's exhortation. Those who stubbornly persist in rebellion and continue in sin, disregarding the counsel, reproof, and truth proclaimed to them, shall face judgment. St. John, the forerunner, exemplified a life of penitence even before the Lord's earthly manifestation. He was born to our father Zacharias and our mother Saint Elizabeth, with the archangel Gabriel foretelling his birth and his divine calling. From his mother's womb, he was destined to live a life of exceptional holiness, preparing the way for the Lord and proclaiming a genuine sermon of repentance. He abstained from worldly pleasures, not even tasting the flavor of meat or wine, choosing instead to sustain himself with a diet of locusts and desert honey.

Furthermore, dear members, contemplate the unique position held by St. John the Baptist. Even before his birth, while he was still in his mother's womb, he received divine revelation concerning the approach of the Virgin Mary, the mother of our Lord. As the blessed Mary entered the presence of St. Elizabeth, the unborn John, filled with the Holy Spirit, leaped for joy, acknowledging the sacredness of the encounter. In awe, St. Elizabeth exclaimed, "How is it that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" (Luke 1:43). Thus, we witness the extraordinary moment when the first apostle, St. John, bearing witness from his mother's womb, testified to the divine nature of Christ. Truly, he was a martyr even before his birth.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1430 | date:2023-07-06T22:03:02 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

On this festive occasion, as we celebrate the birth of St. John the Baptist, let us embrace the profound lessons embedded in his life. Let us draw from the wellspring of his unwavering faith, his fervent proclamation of repentance, and his humble surrender before the Messiah. In our journey towards God's kingdom, let us awaken from the slumber of sin and strive for true repentance, guided by the message of St. John the Baptist.

Therefore, dear members, let us remember that our website, bearing the name of St. John the Baptist, is rooted in the purpose of his repentance sermon. It is through this lens that we seek to share the message of repentance, offering guidance and support to all who yearn to draw closer to God's kingdom. May the life and ministry of St. John inspire us to pursue genuine contrition, transforming our hearts and leading us to the path of eternal salvation.

May the prayers of St. John the Baptist, the greatest born of women, accompany us in our spiritual endeavors, and may his radiant example continue to guide us towards the eternal kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1436 | date:2023-07-07T22:30:01 ---


--- id:1437 | date:2023-07-07T22:30:01 ---


--- id:1438 | date:2023-07-07T22:30:01 ---


--- id:1439 | date:2023-07-07T22:31:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #conception Virgin #Mary 

Beloved members, today we gather to commemorate the monthly feast of the conception of the blessed Virgin Mary. Let us delve into the profound significance of this event and may our hearts be enlightened by the wisdom and grace of the Holy Spirit.

In the year 5485 since the creation of the world, fifteen years prior to the dawn of the Year of Mercy, the conception of our Lady took place. It was a time when the world was engulfed in the darkness of sin, and the consequences of human transgression weighed heavily upon all creation. The floodwaters of Noah's time serve as a vivid testimony, for they rose fifteen cubits above the highest mountains, covering the earth and cleansing it from the defilement of wickedness (Genesis 7:19).

Reflect upon the significance of those waters, dear members, for they were a symbol of the pervasive sin that had plagued humanity from the time of our progenitor Adam until the advent of Christ. Just as the floodwaters harmed not only humanity but also every living creature on earth, the sin of Adam affected not only humankind but also the animals and even the celestial beings of heaven.

The holy angels, who dwell in glory and serve as intermediaries between God and man, were exempt from the burden of this sin. However, they refrained from entering into the service of humanity, recognizing that it was through man's agency that this sin had entered the world. It was in this context that the angelic proclamation of peace and salvation to the shepherds on that holy night came to pass (Luke 2:8-12).

Our Lady, the chosen vessel, descended from priestly lineage through her mother and royal lineage through her father. She was a descendant of King David and Solomon, as well as of Aaron the High Priest. Yet, her ancestors, Hannah and Joachim, faced great trials and reproach due to their barrenness. Barrenness was erroneously believed to be a consequence of sin, and thus, they were scorned, reproached, and even prevented from entering the House of God for worship.

However, let us be mindful, dear members, that God's ways are not like those of mortals. In their distress, Hannah and Joachim wept before the Lord, beseeching Him to remove the shame that clung to them. They offered fervent prayers and supplications, joining the chorus of many prophets and saints who had longed for the advent of the Virgin Mary. The culmination of these cries for divine intervention found their fulfillment in the birth of our Lady.

The barrenness that had afflicted Hannah and Joachim, perceived as a consequence of sin, transformed into a vessel for God's divine plan. It was a vessel through which the Virgin Mary, the bearer of heavenly secrets, would enter the world. She appeared in a vision to her mother Hannah, and even before her conception, the fruit of life, the mother of Jesus Christ, the embodiment of righteousness, was foretold by the angel of the good news, Gabriel. 

While still in her mother's womb, our Lady, the fruit of the holy union between Hannah and Joachim, performed extraordinary deeds that testified to her greatness. She bestowed light upon the blind and strength upon weak hands, even before her birth. From the moment of her conception, she exuded sanctity, and her mere presence caused the dead to rise.

Witnessing these events, Satan could not remain silent. Though unaware of the precise timing, he understood that a moment of great significance was upon him. If such miracles occurred even before her birth, what extraordinary wonders would unfold when she came into the world? In his relentless enmity, Satan stirred up the Jews against the parents of our Lady, seeking to torment her even while she resided within the sacred confines of her mother's womb. But the Virgin Mary had already confounded him, even before her birth, by opening the eyes of the blind and causing the mute to speak. Who among God's creation had ever achieved such wonders from the confines of the womb?

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:1440 | date:2023-07-07T22:33:01 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

From the very beginning, when the angels beheld her on their wings, she was entrusted with the divine guardianship, as proclaimed by the messenger Gabriel, who was appointed to protect her. Recognizing that she did not belong to this world, our Lady departed from her parental home, accompanied by her spiritual kinsfolk and angelic hosts. The Lord, who sought out Adam when he wandered away from his home and lost communion with God, is now reunited with him through his mother. Thus, she embarked on a journey to Mount Lebanon, the revered land where her ancestors had received visions. For she is the promised Bride of Lebanon, foretold to be born in a lion's den beneath the celestial heights of the Lebanese mountains.

Satan, witnessing these divine interventions, persisted in his enmity. He did not rest, for he comprehended that if such wonders could occur before her birth, the magnitude of her impact upon the world after her birth would be unparalleled. He gathered the Jewish armies, instigating hostility against Hannah and Joachim. Even in her mother's womb, the Virgin Mary was not afforded a moment of peace. She had already struck at Satan's core, displaying her profound capabilities. Indeed, as written in the great book, Jeremiah declares, "Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you; before you were born, I sanctified you" (Jeremiah 1:5).

The initial revelation of our Lady to the angels, accompanied by their protective wings, served as a testament to her divine calling. Recognizing that she did not belong to this world, she departed her familial abode, forsaking the transient pleasures of earthly existence. She journeyed to Mount Lebanon, the land of her ancestral visionaries, in fulfillment of the prophecy that proclaimed her as the Bride of Lebanon. The birth of the Virgin Mary, shining more brightly than the sun and surpassing all glory, occurred on a day in May.

On that sacred day, plants blossomed out of season, stones transformed into bread, and the winter months yielded to the approaching season of blessing. It was the time when Christ, the Bread of Life, would grant nourishment to the world, manifesting Himself as the heavenly manna. Indeed, this momentous sign was accompanied by the presence of numerous angelic hosts, descending from heaven to earth, saturating the surroundings with a fragrance indescribable. The tidings of the archangel Gabriel resonated throughout the heavens and spread with exultation, heralding the birth of the Virgin Mary.

Dear members, may the profundity of this Orthodox perspective on the conception of the blessed Virgin Mary touch the depths of your souls. As we commemorate this blessed event, let us rejoice and offer our fervent prayers, seeking the intercession of the Mother of God. May her blessed conception inspire us to strive for purity and righteousness in our own lives, as we follow the path laid before us by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

May the grace and peace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1447 | date:2023-07-09T13:50:39 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, as you may know, we have recently started a live Q&A program for kids (roughly 8-18 year olds). This is at 6pm EST every Sunday and it is lead by volunteer deacons that are capable of answering children's questions and discussing various Church topics with them. We are now extending it by 1hr to accomodate more people as well as to make it a little more convenient for some joining us from Europe. Hence it will now be from 5-7pm EST. One can come in and leave anytime during that time interval so we ask you to spread the word about this opportunity to your friends, family, or anyone you think might be interested. It is still via Google meet and the link is the same for every meeting: https://meet.google.com/qeu-moqk-jux

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1450 | date:2023-07-10T22:10:21 ---


--- id:1451 | date:2023-07-10T22:10:21 ---


--- id:1452 | date:2023-07-10T22:11:01 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ Hello father, does #age determine our ability to take part of Holy #communion? I wanted to take part..

Answer፦ Age does not determine our ability to partake in the Holy Communion. Rather, it is our spiritual readiness and understanding of the sacrament that are of utmost importance. From the moment we are baptized and become children of God, we are invited to partake in the Holy Communion.

It is customary to present infants for Holy Communion forty days after birth for boys and eighty days for girls. This sacrement serves to confirm their status as children of God and members of the Church. From that point forward, there is no separation, departure, or cessation of their life as individuals who belong to God. The continuous participation in Holy Communion sustains our spiritual journey.

When considering age in relation to sin, some refer to the age of Adam for men and the age of Eve for women. This metaphorical understanding implies that individuals reach a level of maturity and responsibility where they are accountable for their actions. However, it is essential to recognize that sin does not discriminate based on age. Sin can be committed at any stage of life, and it is our duty to strive to avoid it.

Rather than focusing solely on age, the primary concern should be cutting off the chain of sin in our lives. It is akin to interrupting a power line or severing a water line. We must make a decisive choice to break the cycle of sin, no matter our age. We should not postpone this decision, waiting until we are older or assuming that age exempts us from sin. Our goal is to sanctify our lives through the sacrament and live in communion with God, thus inheriting eternal life.

Therefore, rather than determining our readiness for Holy Communion based on age, we should take a momentous step to cease habitual sin. There is no fixed system or law that permits sin based on age. The notion that one can indulge in sin while young or wait until old age due to physical limitations is a grave misunderstanding. Such thinking suggests weakness in our commitment to Christianity. God desires the hearts of the youth and children, free from sin. Repentance and forgiveness are available to all, regardless of age.

Considering this perspective, dear member, age alone does not determine when you can approach Holy Communion. We have emphasized the significance of the sacrament on numerous occasions, and we encourage you to explore our teachings and advice available on our social media pages. Our teachings center around the sacrament, and we believe that separation from Holy Communion is a clear indication of our separation from God, which brings great sorrow.

We implore you not to allow any sins to hinder your approach to Holy Communion. Remember that no sin is permissible based on age. God commands us to refrain from sin in every stage of life—during childhood, youth, adulthood, and old age. If we happen to stumble and fall into sin, we must approach with repentance, without shame or fear, and seek forgiveness.

To provide you with comprehensive guidance and support, we recommend engaging with the teachings and advice shared through the John's Repentance website. It is our hope that these resources will serve as a valuable aid on your spiritual journey. We kindly request that you share the provided link with others, extending the opportunity for them to benefit from this invaluable guidance as well.

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you, guiding you on the path of righteousness and communion with God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1457 | date:2023-07-11T22:45:10 ---


--- id:1458 | date:2023-07-11T22:45:10 ---


--- id:1459 | date:2023-07-11T22:45:10 ---


--- id:1460 | date:2023-07-11T22:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Death of St. #Peter and St. P#aul

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we comemorate the death of St. Peter and St. Paul. Accordingly, we have prepared a lesson for you to read and participate in the blessings, so we entrust you to read and apply the learnings to your life. 

St. Peter, the chief of the apostles, was a simple fisherman hailing from Bete Saida. It was on the day after His baptism that our Lord encountered him and chose him to be His disciple. Prior to that, Peter's brother, Andrew, had been the first to join Jesus. Peter displayed exceptional faith, recognizing Jesus as the Christ, the Son of the living God, when others were unsure of His identity. Jesus, in turn, praised Peter, declaring him the recipient of the keys to the Kingdom of Heaven.

Empowered by the comforting grace of the Holy Spirit, St. Peter fearlessly ventured into the world, confronting the metaphorical wolves of this world through his preaching. Alongside innumerable miracles performed by his hands, Peter penned three invaluable epistles and collaborated with St. Mark in the translation and writing of the Gospel. His journey eventually led him to the city of Rome, where a significant event unfolded.

In the great playground of Rome, where nobles congregated, St. Peter addressed the people, and astonishingly, four stone pillars present there resounded with a thunderous "Amen." This miraculous occurrence left those who witnessed it in awe and inspired great reverence. Furthermore, a man who had been tormented by a demon for seventy years experienced liberation upon hearing the word proclaimed by those stones. Stirred by this supernatural intervention, a nobleman named Kewstos and his wife, Acrosia, embraced the teachings of St. Peter regarding renunciation of worldly possessions and compassionate care for the poor.

Impressed by their example, they distributed their wealth among the needy, reserving only their daily sustenance. Subsequently, Kewstos received a summons from the king, which caused anxiety due to their depleted funds. Acrosia, however, encouraged him to proceed, assuring him of God's providence. True to her words, Kewstos embarked on the journey and encountered numerous blessings along the way. The king received him with joy and honor, proving the divine favor that accompanies faithful commitment.

Tragedy struck Kewstos and Acrosia's household upon their return, as their two children were found lifeless, having consumed poisoned water. Concealing this devastating news from her husband, Acrosia resorted to various excuses. Yet, through the intercession of St. Peter and the power of his teachings, a heavenly voice proclaimed that the children would be granted new life due to their acceptance of Peter's words. As promised, the resurrected children became fervent adherents to the teachings of St. Peter. One of them, named Clement, revealed extraordinary visions granted to St. Peter after the Lord's ascension.

In these visions, St. Peter beheld the glorious presence of the Immaculate Virgin Mary, the Mother of God. A cloud, resembling an arrow, bore a luminous tent wherein the Holy Virgin sat, surrounded by angels and archangels brandishing flaming spears and swords. St. Peter received divine revelations, understanding the Virgin Mary as the vine and her womb as the pure hall that bore the Lamb of God. The secrets and mysteries unveiled in these visions were impossible for St. Clement to have known otherwise, attesting to their divine authenticity.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:1461 | date:2023-07-11T22:48:01 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

The command of our Savior beckoned St. Peter to proclaim the Holy Gospel throughout various lands. Accompanied by St. John, he encountered a remarkable incident in Joppa. Enveloped by a bright cloud, St. Peter witnessed a wide curtain descending, adorned with depictions of animals and birds. From the heavens, a voice called out, instructing Peter to rise and eat. However, Peter hesitated, declaring his unworthiness to consume anything unclean. Thrice, the voice reiterated that what God had made clean should not be considered unclean. This encounter served as a revelation that the Gospel was to be preached not only to the Jews but to the Gentiles as well, broadening the scope of salvation.

St. Peter and St. John then journeyed to the city of Antioch, as commanded by our Lord. There, they encountered opposition and threats, facing the prospect of death. However, trusting in God's providence, they prayed fervently for divine assistance. Their prayers were answered when our Lord Jesus Christ appeared to them, accompanied by cherubim and seraphim. Encouraging them, He declared that He would be with them always, even in the face of martyrdom. He reminded them of His own crucifixion and assured them that the chief of the apostles would share in His suffering.

St. Paul, originally known as Saul, also experienced a remarkable conversion and calling. Previously, Saul had zealously persecuted believers in Christ. However, on the road to Damascus, a blinding light from heaven enveloped him, and he heard the voice of Jesus addressing him. Struck by this divine encounter, Saul became temporarily blind and fasted for three days until Ananias, a disciple of Jesus, visited him. Ananias restored his sight through the power of God, and Saul, now Paul, was baptized and embraced his calling as an apostle.

St. Paul's subsequent missionary journeys, marked by imprisonment, floggings, and countless hardships, exemplify his unwavering commitment to spreading the Gospel. In their travels, he and St. Barnabas encountered resistance and opposition, facing false prophets and the wrath of rulers. However, through their faith and the power of the Holy Spirit, they performed miracles, healed the sick, and raised the dead, leading many to embrace the Christian faith.

The apex of St. Paul's ministry unfolded in Rome, where he preached the Gospel and witnessed numerous conversions. However, the tyrannical Emperor Nero subjected him to persecution and torture. Ultimately, St. Paul met his martyrdom, with his head severed by a swordsman. Yet, a young girl from Nero's own family intercepted his severed head, wrapping it in her cloak. When confronted by those who witnessed this miraculous event, the girl revealed that she had encountered St. Peter and St. Paul, resplendent in royal robes and adorned with crowns. Their tangible presence left an indelible impact on her, and she displayed the cloak as proof.

The deaths of St. Peter and St. Paul, while tragic, bear profound spiritual significance. St. Peter's request to be crucified upside down reflected his humility and recognition of his unworthiness to suffer in the same manner as his Lord. St. Paul's unyielding commitment to the Gospel, despite immense hardships, highlighted the transformative power of faith and divine grace. Their martyrdoms continue to inspire generations of believers, exemplifying the virtues of unwavering dedication, unyielding faith, and sacrificial love for God.

May we learn from the lives and deaths of St. Peter and St. Paul, embracing their teachings and emulating their example. Through their prayers and intercessions, may we be strengthened in our faith, deepen our commitment to the Gospel, and experience the transformative power of Christ's love in our lives. .

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1465 | date:2023-07-12T22:30:44 ---
👉🏾 About responsibilities of a #spiritual #father 

👉 Question፦ My confession father does not answer my calls or my text anymore. They have left us in a country without any priest. They expect us to establish a church without any guidance or help. I am tired and frustrated. 

Answer፦ It is vital, beloved members, to perceive circumstances from your spiritual father's perspective. For if he is truly in the service of the Church, he shall not abandon his flock willingly. The heart of a true priest resonates with the love of a father - a love that parallels the love our Heavenly Father has for us. A true spiritual father protects and nurtures not just the body but the soul, fostering an intimate bond between us and the Divine.

Therefore, let us not hasten to judge or yield to despair. We must remind ourselves that we are all frail beings, subjected to earthly trials and tribulations. There could be myriad reasons, known only to God, for your spiritual father's absence.

Our Savior, in the Gospel of John 10:11, stated: "I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep." God, in His divine wisdom, will assuredly pave the way forward, offering us His sacred guidance. Let us then turn our hearts and prayers towards Him.

The Prophet Saint David, in Psalm 23:1-2, comfortingly reassured us: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures." It is God who watches over us, who steadies our course amidst the storms of life. He extends His merciful gaze upon us, proffering His support and shielding us from those who seek our downfall.

Dear member, do not allow weariness to veil your hope. God's divine power is our refuge, our strength when we are weary. When you feel your spirit flagging, remember the words of the Psalmist, in Psalm 121:1-2, "I lift up my eyes to the mountains—where does my help come from? My help comes from the Lord, the Maker of heaven and earth."

Rest assured that God's grace is omnipresent. Let us strive to understand the circumstances of your spiritual father. We are always available to extend our help, should you need it. We have answered your question as much as we understood it but it was not very clear what you're looking to do so please reach out to us with more detail so we can assist further. Let us cast our burdens onto the Lord, for He is our peace, our solace.

May we continually glorify the God of our ancestors, our Father, magnifying His holy name in all we do. Peace be upon us all.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1466 | date:2023-07-13T22:10:02 ---


--- id:1467 | date:2023-07-13T22:11:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Trinity 

Beloved members of John's Repentance service, today is the yearly feast the Holy Trinity. It is a very celebted day in our Church and so we send you this writing so that you may read and partake form the Holy Trinity's blessings. 

The Holy Trinity - a profound mystery, one that confounds the human mind and yet, stands as a beacon of divine revelation. The Trinity, the triune God, is a singular essence manifested in three persons - the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. This, however, should not be confined within the human concept of numbers. The unity is not merely numerical, but a unity of divine essence, an unity of character. The three, then, surpasses the boundaries of numerics to suggest a unique trinity, a unique interconnectedness and interdependence.

God is beyond the comprehension of human mind, beyond the law of numbers. Thus, it is imperative that God Himself reveals the mystery of the Holy Trinity to His creation. The grand revelation - the incarnation of God - stands as a testament to this mystery. It is through the Son of God, Christ, becoming flesh that the eternal Fatherhood and Sonship become recognizable. It is during the baptism of Christ by John the Baptist that the world comes to acknowledge Christ as the eternal Son of God the Father.

The teachings of Christ post His baptism unraveled the divine nature of God the Father. These teachings, in combination with the moral life led by Christ, exhibited the coequality of the Holy Spirit with the Father and the Son. This divine revelation, in the body of Christ, was then passed on to the church, His body on earth. Christ informed us about God the Father, and the church, in her liturgical prayers, affirms this revelation.

The Holy Spirit, a purifying and glorifying life, is the life of the Father and the Son. He is the God who lives within the Father and the Son. During the baptism of Christ, He descended in the form of a dove, teaching us to be baptized in the Holy Spirit as per the Gospel of Matthew (28:19).

The apostle St. John begins his Gospel by affirming the eternal existence of the Word, indicating its unity with the Father and the Holy Spirit - the divine Trinity. He asserts that the Word was first, suggesting the preeminence of the Word, thereby allowing the fathers of the church to interpret the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. As such, the Old Testament is understood as foretelling the New Testament - the incarnation of the Son, who revealed to us His Father, and the Trinity.

When Christ queried His disciples about His identity, Saint Peter responded, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God." (Matthew 16:16). Christ then affirms that this knowledge comes from His Father, and blessed Peter for his testimony. This affirmation from Peter not only confirmed the identity of Christ, but also subtly illuminated the mystery of the Holy Trinity. Peter's words imply that Christ is the living Son of God, sustained by the life of the Holy Spirit - thereby acknowledging the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

The essence of this revelation goes further to highlight the mystery of the Incarnation. Christ, who came in the flesh, was the awaited Messiah as prophesied by the prophets. Thus, St. Peter, through divine revelation, testified to the mystery of the Trinity and the Incarnation in one breath.

This revelation of the unity and trinity of God is evident in His creation and His salvation of the world. The Old Testament foretells God's plan for the salvation of the world, and the Gospel of John reveals the Trinity's involvement in the creation and salvation of the world. It is the same Trinity, who created the world from non-existence, that also saves the world with their unified power when it falls due to wrongdoing. Thus, we come to understand the divine interaction between the Creator and the creation as revealed in the Scriptures. The Trinity's nature, revealed in the eternal life, is also manifest in the salvation of this world.

(Corninies) 👇

--- id:1468 | date:2023-07-13T22:22:37 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

In summary, God is one; God is three - an unfathomable mystery and a profound truth. The unity and trinity of God are essential to understanding His divine nature, His creation, and His salvific action in the world. This understanding requires God's self-revelation, which is manifest in the incarnation of the Son, the teachings of the church, and the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Only through this revelation can we begin to comprehend the depths of the mystery of the Holy Trinity.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1469 | date:2023-07-13T22:34:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 📣

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, our mission continues to grow, and as we look forward to further strengthening our services, we humbly request your involvement and support. Please reach out to us if you're interested in this opportunity. (@yohannesneseha)

We believe that with increased manpower, our reach can be extended even further, ensuring that our offerings are accessible to the global community. The areas in which we currently need assistance are as follows:

1) Question and Answer Support for Amharic page: We require help in managing previously answered questions. Instead of burdening our spiritual leaders with repeating responses, we need individuals who can provide links to past answers and share the knowledge responsibly, only commenting when they are certain of the correct response.

2) Translation: As we aim to make our resources available to a broader audience, we are seeking volunteers who can translate text lessons from Amharic to English for our English version of John's Repentance website.

4) Moderation for Amharic page: To maintain the sanctity of our community, we need moderators who can manage inappropriate messages, advertisements, links, and phone numbers posted on our page. If such posts appear, writing a polite correction or contacting the admin for removal will be necessary.

5) YouTube videos for Amharic page: We need assistance on uploading videos to YouTube 

6) Outreach: We need your help on sharing our service to many more people.  

7) Social media management: We need assistance managing our social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. This is much easier than it sounds. It's usually a copy paste. 

In essence, your support would contribute to enhancing our services, helping our spiritual leaders, and saving the time of all families who use the John's Repentance website.

Please note, this volunteer opportunity can be fulfilled using your mobile phone and can be carried out at a time that suits your schedule. This is an unpaid, voluntary service offering, filled with the opportunity for spiritual blessings.

We thank you in advance for your generous cooperation and encourage you to reach out to us if you're willing to be a part of this spiritual mission. Your contribution will be greatly appreciated, and we are excited about the potential to work together in the service of God and our community.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1473 | date:2023-07-14T22:31:32 ---
👉🏾 About #hardships in our #spiritual life

Question፦ Good evening father, may Christ’s peace be with you!
I have one question that I would like you to cover. 
I live around many non-Orthodox or atheist people. I also have witnessed my closest friends convert to other religions . I have always felt sad and broken about that part of my life. 
My friends mostly throw questions at me or invite me to their gatherings which I respectfully decline most times and sometimes address/attend out of respect. 
I am concerned because I find it very hard to defend my religion and practices when they raise questions because I feel that can be arrogant and hypocritical. As time goes by, I fear I am losing my faith and connection with the saints (even with our Holy Mother) slowly

Answer፦ Peace to you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, dear member. Your struggles are genuine and shared by many in a world that increasingly drifts away from the teachings of the Church. Your humility in these circumstances is admirable. 

You are right, it is indeed disheartening to see our loved ones adopt a worldview contrary to our own, even more so when we see them turn away from the orthodox faith. And yet, we should remember that our faith is not dependent on the beliefs of those around us. We are called to "stand firm in the faith, be courageous, be strong" (1 Corinthians 16:13). This might seem challenging when we find ourselves to be the sole believers in our surroundings, but remember that Christ promised, "I am with you always, even to the end of the age" (Matthew 28:20).

There will always be questions about our faith that we cannot answer, and that's okay. It does not imply that our faith is wrong or lacking. This is why we have the Church Fathers, the saints, and our teachers, who dedicated their lives to preserving and interpreting the teachings of the Church. They are our guides in navigating these questions. They tackled numerous heresies and philosophical challenges to Orthodoxy. Thus, when a question puzzles you, seek guidance from the wealth of wisdom left by our Fathers. Record the questions and consult with knowledgeable priests or theologians who can guide you. We are not expected to know everything; our faith is a journey of learning and growing closer to God.

About your living situation, St. Paul teaches us, "If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone" (Romans 12:18). Living peacefully does not mean abandoning your faith but preserving it, while also respecting the beliefs of others. In harmony, we can live our Christian life, exhibit love, humility, and patience as Christ commanded, which may even draw others to Christ. 

However, if you find your faith is in danger, consider seeking an environment more conducive to spiritual growth. There is no shame in this. It's the same principle as a person leaving a place of disease for the sake of their physical health. Our faith, our spiritual health, is more critical, for it concerns our eternal souls. 

If you find that your interactions are leading you away from God or our Holy Mother, this is indeed a serious concern. It's crucial to evaluate these relationships and decide what boundaries might need to be set. 

Lastly, reach out to your local Orthodox community for support. Engage with them, participate in the sacraments, join the fellowship and Bible studies. This can help strengthen your faith and provide the support you need to stand firm amidst the challenges you are facing. 

Remember, our faith is not founded on our ability to defend it but rather on the love and grace of Christ. Do not let unanswered questions shake your faith. 

Our prayers are with you in this challenging journey. May God bless and guide you, and may the prayers of St. Mary and all the saints be with us.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1474 | date:2023-07-14T22:33:04 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 📣

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, our mission continues to grow, and as we look forward to further strengthening our services, we humbly request your involvement and support. Please reach out to us if you're interested in this opportunity. (@yohannesneseha)

We believe that with increased manpower, our reach can be extended even further, ensuring that our offerings are accessible to the global community. The areas in which we currently need assistance are as follows:

1) Question and Answer Support for Amharic page: We require help in managing previously answered questions. Instead of burdening our spiritual leaders with repeating responses, we need individuals who can provide links to past answers and share the knowledge responsibly, only commenting when they are certain of the correct response.

2) Translation: As we aim to make our resources available to a broader audience, we are seeking volunteers who can translate text lessons from Amharic to English for our English version of John's Repentance website.

4) Moderation for Amharic page: To maintain the sanctity of our community, we need moderators who can manage inappropriate messages, advertisements, links, and phone numbers posted on our page. If such posts appear, writing a polite correction or contacting the admin for removal will be necessary.

5) YouTube videos for Amharic page: We need assistance on uploading videos to YouTube 

6) Outreach: We need your help on sharing our service to many more people.  

7) Social media management: We need assistance managing our social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. This is much easier than it sounds. It's usually a copy paste. 

In essence, your support would contribute to enhancing our services, helping our spiritual leaders, and saving the time of all families who use the John's Repentance website.

Please note, this volunteer opportunity can be fulfilled using your mobile phone and can be carried out at a time that suits your schedule. This is an unpaid, voluntary service offering, filled with the opportunity for spiritual blessings.

We thank you in advance for your generous cooperation and encourage you to reach out to us if you're willing to be a part of this spiritual mission. Your contribution will be greatly appreciated, and we are excited about the potential to work together in the service of God and our community.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1477 | date:2023-07-15T21:30:59 ---


--- id:1478 | date:2023-07-15T21:30:59 ---


--- id:1479 | date:2023-07-15T21:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Mystery of the #Holy #Eucharist (#Communion)

What is the Holy Communion? 
What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion? 
Why is the sacrament called a mystery? 
Who is worthy of the Holy Communion? 
What preparation do we do before and after receiving the Holy Communion?

The sacrament of Holy Communion is one of the seven sacraments of the Orthodox Church. The term "Qurban" is an Arabic word meaning "blessing," "gift of money, knowledge, labor and time." In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.

In the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile Himself with mankind. This offering is Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. Thus, the sacrament means the perfect Body and Blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior.

It was Jesus Christ who founded the sacrament of Holy Communion on the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. Only his twelve disciples were with him when he established this great sacrement and mystery. He did not reveal it to all the people who were following him like he did with other sacrements. This is why the Holy Church shroudes it in veil and honor as she offers it to the faithful. 

The Holy Communion is called a mystery because of the transformation of bread into the flesh of God and wine into the blood of God, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. The priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat and prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread and wine by saying, "Aækote Barëkë Wokëdësë," the authority of the priest, the word of God, and the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread and wine into the flesh and blood of God, making it a mystery that is hidden from the unbeliever.

Before receiving the Holy Communion, one must believe without doubt in the change of the bread and wine into the flesh and blood of God, which is necessary for the healing of the stain and wound of sin and the source of eternal life. One must also repent from past sins, confess, return, and guard against future sins. There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion, and one should not stay away from the Holy Communion until the end of one's life.

After receiving the Holy Communion, one should take precautions, such as refraining from eating or drinking for a certain period, and contemplating on the spiritual benefit received from the sacrament. The Holy Communion is a great mystery and is the sacrament that is central to the Orthodox Church's teachings.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1480 | date:2023-07-15T21:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

If those who receive the sacrament are married, they should abstain from meat for three days before receiving communion. This is not because sexual relationship is a sin or unclean but because it is a work of the flesh. We do this out of reverence for the Eucharist. 

One should confesses a known sin and say, "Forgive me for any unknown sins," and cleanse their heart of revenge and keep their body away from wrongdoing.

In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food or water, and wait until the food is removed from the stomach.
If a person has a nocturnal emission the night of, they should not receive communion on that day.

On the eve, one should take a bath and prepare clean clothes.

It is necessary to get to church before the services start. A person who comes in the middle of the Liturgy and has not properly consecrated themselves should not receive communion.

A woman should not receive communion during her menstrual period for up to seven days. Afterward, she should wash herself and receive communion. As she gets close to giving birth, she should not receive communion until the child is born and christened. She should wait until she has gains back her energy before she continues taking part of the Eucharist. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1493 | date:2023-07-17T23:30:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Overcoming #Lust: An Extended #Lesson

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you different lessons from different stories about how to overcome the temptation of lust. Hence we entrust you to read it and use it in your daily lives. 

1. A man held captive by lust wrestles with a ravenous flame in his heart, a fire that burns unceasingly. In his struggle against this humiliating proposition, he stumbles upon the power of prayer and fasting. As he adopts these practices, the once irresistible flame begins to ebb, its light diminishes, and his heart is relieved. Through fasting and prayer, he refocuses his energy away from his carnal desires and towards his spiritual growth.

2. Another individual, burdened by lust, seeks counsel from an elder. His transparency with the elder lifts the weight of his struggle, replacing it with encouragement and support. The elder advises him, “Fear not, yield not, but whenever the spirit combats you, remember the sanctity of the body and its higher purpose." By illuminating the sin, it loses power, and the individual regains control over his desires. It's essential to remember that opening up about our struggles lessens their burden and can allow for spiritual guidance and support.

3. As another elder suggests, imagine a passerby who catches a whiff of a tantalizing meal being prepared. If the scent is alluring and he accepts its pull, he will go inside and partake. If not, he continues his journey unencumbered. It's the same with temptation—do not let its enticing aroma draw you in. Rather, respond with the prayer, "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, help me."

4. A man besieged by the lure of lust turns to a holy man for assistance. Through fervent prayers, the holy man begs God for understanding about the source of the individual's struggle. The revelation received highlights the man's active submission to his desires rather than seeking divine help. He was advised to resist and fight against the temptation. Prayer and guidance help him regain his footing and he continues his journey, ever watchful.

5. Two brothers plagued by lust abandon their monastic lives for the pleasures of the world. However, they soon realize the emptiness of their actions, the looming dread of divine judgment, and decide to return to their monastic duties. They seek forgiveness, performing acts of penance, gradually releasing the grips of their earthly desires. Their transformation serves as a testament to the transformative power of repentance.

6. A brother, troubled by lustful temptations, receives an offer of divine intervention from an elder. However, he realizes that his struggle is refining his spirit, and so asks for strength instead of removal. This request enlightens the elder to a new understanding of struggle and spiritual growth.

7. Another brother is tormented by the image of a beautiful woman. The image is so overpowering that he finds himself engulfed in a fierce battle. He exposes himself to the reality of mortal decay, which helps him resist the tempting vision. Understanding the transient nature of physical beauty aids him in his fight against lust.

8. A son struggles against lustful desires and considers renouncing his monastic life. His father sends him to live in the desert for forty days, during which the true repulsive nature of lust is revealed. This experience strengthens his resolve to lead a spiritual life.

9. A monk beseeches an elder for advice on managing lustful thoughts. The elder advises him to contemplate death and eternal punishment—bitter truths that act like a powerful antidote to earthly temptations. The fearful consideration of these realities can help quiet the allure of lustful desires.

10. A brother endures forty days of intense battle against the spirit of lust, appearing in the form of a beautiful woman. His perseverance is recognized by God, who liberates him from the clutch of this temptation. His struggle highlights the value of persistence in spiritual battles.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1494 | date:2023-07-17T23:33:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

11. Father Cyrus of Alexandria warns: "If lustful thoughts are left unchecked, they can lead to lustful actions." Lustful thoughts are the seeds from which sinful actions grow, and to prevent this, they must be actively confronted and resisted.

12. A brother considers leaving monastic life due to the strain of resisting lust. An elder advises him to endure patiently, as patience and perseverance in struggle can reap spiritual rewards. Mutual support can help individuals overcome their struggles.

13. A hermit, revered for his saintly life, falls into the trap of lust, revealing that even the seemingly holy can fall. He is filled with regret and sorrow for his actions. Instead of succumbing to despair, he spends a year in penance and prayer. His story is a reminder that no one is beyond the reach of temptation, and that true repentance and divine mercy are the means of restoration.

While the struggle against lust may be arduous, these stories underline the power of prayer, penance, and spiritual guidance in overcoming it. Each story imparts a valuable lesson in the ongoing battle against lustful desires and highlights the transformative power of faith and repentance. Armed with these lessons, one can navigate through the stormy seas of temptation, guided by the beacon of divine grace and mercy.


May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1500 | date:2023-07-18T22:31:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 📣

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, our mission continues to grow, and as we look forward to further strengthening our services, we humbly request your involvement and support. Please reach out to us if you're interested in this opportunity. (@yohannesneseha)

We believe that with increased manpower, our reach can be extended even further, ensuring that our offerings are accessible to the global community. The areas in which we currently need assistance are as follows:

1) Question and Answer Support for Amharic page: We require help in managing previously answered questions. Instead of burdening our spiritual leaders with repeating responses, we need individuals who can provide links to past answers and share the knowledge responsibly, only commenting when they are certain of the correct response.

2) Translation: As we aim to make our resources available to a broader audience, we are seeking volunteers who can translate text lessons from Amharic to English for our English version of John's Repentance website.

4) Moderation for Amharic page: To maintain the sanctity of our community, we need moderators who can manage inappropriate messages, advertisements, links, and phone numbers posted on our page. If such posts appear, writing a polite correction or contacting the admin for removal will be necessary.

5) YouTube videos for Amharic page: We need assistance on uploading videos to YouTube 

6) Outreach: We need your help on sharing our service to many more people.  

7) Social media management: We need assistance managing our social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. This is much easier than it sounds. It's usually a copy paste. 

In essence, your support would contribute to enhancing our services, helping our spiritual leaders, and saving the time of all families who use the John's Repentance website.

Please note, this volunteer opportunity can be fulfilled using your mobile phone and can be carried out at a time that suits your schedule. This is an unpaid, voluntary service offering, filled with the opportunity for spiritual blessings.

We thank you in advance for your generous cooperation and encourage you to reach out to us if you're willing to be a part of this spiritual mission. Your contribution will be greatly appreciated, and we are excited about the potential to work together in the service of God and our community.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1501 | date:2023-07-20T23:15:20 ---


--- id:1502 | date:2023-07-20T23:20:20 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Mystery of #Incarnation

Let us delve into the profound mystery of the incarnation, a cornerstone of our faith. In this divine revelation, we proclaim that the Word, one of the Holy Trinity, assumed perfect humanity to reveal His boundless love and redeem the world. He was born of the Holy Virgin Mary, fulfilling the prophecies of God's love for mankind, who found themselves ensnared in sin, burdened by their fallen nature, and oppressed under the dominion of demons. As the Apostle Paul declares, "But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law" (Galatians 4:4).

The Word, the invisible Divinity by nature, became visible through the mystical incarnation. The intangible was grasped, the unbeatable was wounded, the immortal experienced death in the flesh, the one who knew no hunger or thirst became hungry and thirsty, and the one without need was satisfied. In this union, the flesh was infused with divinity, and the eternal Word became known as the firstborn, for it merged with the eternal Divinity. As it is written, "Behold, the man has become like one of us" (Genesis 3:22), and thus He was counted as the Son of God the Father and the Son of the Virgin Mary. The Son born of a Virgin is rightfully called the Son of God the Father. Hence, due to this inseparable unity, the Orthodox faith asserts the following teachings regarding the incarnation:

1. Without Change: When the Word becomes flesh, it does not undergo any alteration or modification. Just as the Scriptures affirm, "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever" (Hebrews 13:8). "With whom there is no variation or shadow due to change" (James 1:17). As the Lord Himself proclaims, "I am the Lord, I do not change" (Malachi 3:6).

2. Without Division: The Divinity did not abandon the body after accomplishing the salvation of the world. He did not separate Himself from the flesh, as confirmed in the words of the prophet Jeremiah, "Have I not preserved them in my dwelling?" (Jeremiah 17:16).

3. Without Confusion: The two natures, divine and human, are not blended into one another but exist in a perfect union. Therefore, when it is said that "this is my body," it signifies a complete and indivisible union without any shame.

4. Without Separation: The divinity and the flesh remain distinct, without mixing or leaving their respective essences. The Word did not abandon His divinity, nor did the flesh cease to be flesh. Rather, the flesh was divinely glorified, and the Word became flesh, displaying a perfect union.

To summarize, the will of the Word, which cannot be violated or augmented, is the same as the will of the flesh. It is a union of two wills without confusion—a perfect harmony of wills. 

Furthermore, our mystical incarnation doctrine asserts that God was born in the flesh of the Virgin Mary, and she is rightly called the Theotokos, the Mother of God, for she gave birth to God in the flesh (Luke 1:35). As the devil, disguised as a serpent, separated mankind from God, the Lord chose a mysterious plan that rendered the crafty wisdom of the devil futile. The mystery through which He accomplished the salvation of the world surpasses the wisdom with which He created it. He chose a virgin and, from her flesh and soul, was born in a humble stable, crucified naked, and thus saved the world.

When we declare that God became man, it does not diminish or increase His divinity. As the Scriptures affirm, "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever" (Hebrews 13:8). He remains the eternal Lord of all (Psalm 101:27).

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1505 | date:2023-07-21T02:57:27 ---
(Continued)

In His incarnation, Christ assumed our humanity to become the Redeemer of humankind, to raise the fallen, to seek the lost, and to serve as our perfect example. He came to reveal His immeasurable love, to redeem us from sin and death, and to restore us to life. The Son, born of the Virgin Mary, fasted, was baptized, preached the Gospel, and was crucified on Calvary, giving His life for our salvation. On the third day, He triumphed over death, and after forty days, He ascended into heaven. He will come again, bringing perfection and glory. When He returns, all those who pierced Him will behold His majesty.

The teachings of the Orthodox Tewahedo Church concerning the mystical incarnation elucidate our belief in the unity of the divine and human natures in Christ. Although some may label us as Monophysites, associating our Church with a belief in the mingling or absorption of the natures, our faith is not Monophysite in nature. Such assertions stem from misunderstandings and misinterpretations of the teachings of revered figures like Adeshke, who, despite his devoutness, deviated from the Orthodox understanding of the Trinity. Scholars often recount his teachings as examples of misguided monastic fervor rather than authoritative theological positions.

When the Orthodox Tewahedo Church proclaims "Tewahedo" (Oneness), it signifies the unity of the two natures without one destroying or consuming the other. The unity of their essence is not singular but composite. St. Cyril of Alexandria, a renowned Church Father, unveils the mystery of Christ's incarnation as the mystery of salvation, affirming that before Christ became man, He was God, and when He assumed humanity, He remained fully God.

In contemplating the mystery of the incarnation, we are humbled by the profound love and mercy of God. Through His voluntary self-emptying, the Word became flesh to dwell among us, revealing the path of salvation and offering us the opportunity for eternal communion with Him. Let us meditate on the incarnation, embracing its depth and significance, as we marvel at the infinite wisdom and grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1509 | date:2023-07-22T22:01:55 ---


--- id:1510 | date:2023-07-22T22:01:55 ---


--- id:1511 | date:2023-07-22T22:01:55 ---


--- id:1512 | date:2023-07-22T22:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Virgin #Mary; the Covenant of Mercy 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, today is the monthly feast of our Lady the Virgin Mary, which is named Covenant of Mercy (ኪዳነ ምህረት). Today we celebrate the Theotokos, who formed an ineffable Covenant of Mercy with the Almighty. We hence send you a lesson on the Theotokos so you can read and participate in the blessings of this day. 

Let us delve into sacred scripture, for in the Psalm of David, chapter 89 verse 3, it was proclaimed: “I have made a covenant with my chosen one.” The Virgin Mary, the unblemished Mother of God, stood as a sentinel of ceaseless prayer upon the hallowed grounds of Golgotha where the precious body of her Son once laid. For fifteen years after our Lord's ascension, she devoted herself, with the ardor of a thousand suns, to the intercession for the salvation of our souls.

Oh, what wondrous tales do the ancient tongues whisper of that fateful day, the sixteenth of February, when the celestial host descended! Led by our fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the holy angels carried the Virgin to the very heavens. She beheld with her immaculate eyes the dwelling places of the prophets and the saints. Her heart overflowed with joy and she magnified the Lord.

But lo, her heart was soon to be stricken with sorrow. The angels showed her the abyss of despair, where the souls of the hapless were enveloped in the shadow of eternal flame. Wretched and forlorn, they cried out. The Virgin's heart, pure as the driven snow, wept for them.

Returning to the sacred earth, near the tomb of her beloved Son, the Virgin implored the Saviour. Her plea was as the sweetest hymn, a balm to the Heavens. She spoke, “By the manger wherein You were cradled, by the swaddling cloth that embraced You, by the very steps I took by Your side through our sojourn, I beseech You, O Lord, hearken to the humble entreaties of Your handmaiden."

Our Lady sought grace for those who hold her dear, who serve in the temples, who clothe themselves in her honor, who tend to the afflicted, who nourish the hungry, and console the mourning. For these acts of kindness render joy unto her heart, and in turn, may they be blessed with graces unimaginable, with glories unseen and unheard by human senses.

Our Lord Jesus Christ, in His infinite mercy, responded, “As surely as I took on flesh to fulfill the yearnings of your heart, everything you ask shall be granted. I, Emmanuel, do solemnly swear, that My covenant shall never be shattered.”

Thus, my brethren, let us be inspired to lives of piety and charity. Our Lady, who gave birth to God in her chaste womb, she, who remains steadfast as a rock, calls us into her fellowship. How magnificent are the fruits of her womb, and oh, how exalted are those who partake in them!

Through these sacred teachings, we are brought closer to salvation. May the Virgin Mary's intercessions be a refuge, and her boundless love guide us through the tempests of this earthly sojourn.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1514 | date:2023-07-24T21:38:52 ---


--- id:1515 | date:2023-07-24T21:40:38 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson about St. #Steven the first Martyr. 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, today July 24th, we commemorate the memory of our holy forefather in faith, St. Stephen, the Protomartyr. His tale has been preserved in the pages of ecclesiastical history and given to us as a beacon of unwavering faith, fearless proclamation, and ultimately, martyrdom.

The name Stephen, originating from the Greek "Στέφανος" (Stephanos), means "crown" or "garland," a fitting epithet for the first among those who earned the crown of martyrdom in the nascent Church. He was the inaugural martyr, laying down his life for Christ after His Ascension, and hence, he carries the title of "Protomartyr."

The history of Stephen, as delineated in the Acts of the Apostles (6:1-15), is a testament to the power of faith and obedience to God. As the Christian community in Jerusalem began to grow, it became increasingly challenging for the Apostles to attend to all their duties. In response, they selected seven men of good repute, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, to assist in serving the needs of the community, particularly in the administration of aid to the needy. Among these, Stephen stood preeminent.

Stephen, adorned with the grace of the Holy Spirit, served the Church not only through his diaconal duties but also through his spirited proclamation of Christ's teachings. His devotion and eloquence were remarkable to such a degree that his detractors could not counter his words and resorted to malevolent subterfuge. Accused of blasphemy against Moses and God, Stephen was brought before the Sanhedrin, the Jewish council.

Before the council, Stephen offered a fervent defense of his faith, narrating the history of God's covenant with Israel and boldly criticizing their intransigence and infidelity to the covenant. "You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you," he declared (Acts 7:51). His indictment of their rejection of Jesus, whom Stephen avowed to be the promised Messiah, enraged the council.

In the face of their fury, Stephen, his face radiant like that of an angel, looked steadfastly into heaven and beheld a vision of the glorified Christ at the right hand of God. Sharing this vision with those present, he said, "Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God" (Acts 7:56). His words, interpreted as blasphemy, sealed his fate. He was dragged out of the city and stoned to death.

Yet, even in the throes of this brutal execution, Stephen emulated the mercy of Christ, imploring, "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." His last breath was a prayer for his executioners, embodying Christ's teaching to love our enemies.

In this martyrdom, a significant figure observed: Saul of Tarsus, who later became Paul the Apostle, held the garments of those who stoned Stephen. His witnessing of Stephen's steadfast faith and unyielding love might have sown the seeds of his own conversion.

Stephen's life and martyrdom serve as an enduring lesson for us. His unyielding faith, courage in the face of persecution, and love even for his persecutors are the standards that we, as followers of Christ, are called to emulate. His story is not only a historical account but also a spiritual roadmap for each of us, pointing the way to a life of deep faith, bold witness, and sacrificial love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1516 | date:2023-07-24T22:00:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Sin As illness፤ Church As Hospital Of The #Soul

Dear members of John's Repentance service, today we send you a writing about Atheism from a great Russian Orthodox father as this is a major problem the western world is dealing with today. 

<<< Our Orthodox Faith defines sin as an illness that is in need of healing, not as a crime that requires punishment. The Church is a hospital for the soul whose therapists (priests) first sought therapy and then became therapists. As a healing institution the Church is the place for broken souls.

We come before Christ as tarnished images, far from that which God intended. Yet this very Creator God is patient and loving, quick to forgive. Our God invites us to holiness, to be made whole. His grace is sufficient to lift us up out of our mire and into the heights of a joy and gladness that is meant to be eternal. We need only to humble ourselves and ask for help and the Kingdom is ours.

Heaven and hell are not about location, but about relationships. All that is needed is our responsive word, followed by action. We say yes to God's invitation while seeking out the therapy that is ours within the life of the Church.

Wholeness (holiness) is ours through this relationship with Christ, Who's redemptive act upon the Cross, together with His having conquered death by death, delivers us from the depths of estrangement. We are lifted up to God, having been made whole, and eternal communion with God is our destiny. >>>

Source: Abbot Tryphon from the Russian Orthodox Church 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1518 | date:2023-07-25T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1519 | date:2023-07-25T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1520 | date:2023-07-25T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1521 | date:2023-07-25T22:01:13 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson about St. #Gabriel the Archangel 

"Behold, I am Gabriel who stand in the presence of God."
(Luke 1:19)

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today is the annual feast of the great Archangel Gabriel, our divine intercessor, and our revered martyrs, Saint Yelutan and the young Saint Kirkos. This writing is intended to enhance our understanding of Archangel Gabriel so that we may receive his heavenly blessings.

Gabriel, a name signifying 'God's strength' or 'God's messenger', is a title bestowed upon this radiant being who stands as a divine emissary between the Creator and humankind, often clothed in the semblance of a man. Archangel Gabriel holds the 2nd position in the celestial hierarchy, just after the venerable Archangel Michael, among the seven great Archangels. Angels, those luminous beings created by God on the first day, exist in eight classes. They are birthed from the Word of God, their substance being both fiery and ethereal. God has arrayed 99 tribes of angels across the celestial sphere, divided among three heavens.

1st/ In Yore, God has designated 4 chiefs over 40 angelic tribes.

2nd/ In the Heaven of Light known as Rama, He has ordained 3 chiefs, with 30 tribes inhabiting 3 heavenly cities.

3rd/ In the Heaven known as Err, God has divided them into 3 divisions, 30 tribes, 3 cities, each division under a chief.

The extensive and intricate angelic order bears profound lessons, which, God willing, shall be expounded upon in future discourses. Coming back to our subject, Archangel Gabriel presides as the chief over the 30 tribes of angels residing in Rama's heaven of light, along with 4 tribes in Arbab. In the Holy Scriptures, Saint Gabriel's intercessory and healing roles are akin to those of Saint Michael.

When the angels pondered the mystery of their origin, the Father of Lies, the Devil, claimed to have created them. It was Gabriel who counselled steadfastness, admonishing the angels to remain faithful to their divine origin.

1st/ To the prophet Daniel, Gabriel was a guide and an expositor of divine mysteries. He appeared before Daniel, saying, "Understand, O son of man, for at the time of the end shall be the vision." (Daniel 8:16)

2nd/ Once more, in a subsequent vision, Daniel saw Gabriel, who explained to him, "O Daniel, I have now come forth to give you wisdom and understanding." (Daniel 9:22)

3rd/ Gabriel was the divine deliverer who saved Daniel from the lions' den.

4th/ The Three Youths were spared the fiery furnace through Gabriel's intervention.

5th/ He foretold to the priest Zechariah and his wife, Saint Elizabeth, the birth of their son, John the Baptist, despite their old age.

6th/ It was Gabriel who announced to the Virgin Mary the impending birth of the World's Savior, our Lord Jesus Christ.

7th/ Saint Yelutan and young Kirkos were saved from perishing in an iron vessel by his divine intervention.

8th/ He guided the Magi to Bethlehem, where the Savior was born, by the sign of a star.

9th/ He instructed Joseph in a dream to take the Virgin Mary and the infant Jesus and flee to Egypt.

Throughout the sacred texts, we witness Gabriel's mediation and guidance. We shall continue to explore these divine interactions in future homilies. On this feast day, let us ask for the intercession of Archangel Gabriel, that he may bless us and keep us safe. For if the Lord had not sent His angels to guard us day and night, at home and on our journeys, we would be vulnerable to the snares of Satan, who seeks to undermine both our earthly life and our eternal salvation.

As the holy Psalmist and Prophet David declared, "He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways." (Psalm 91:11)

And again, "The angel of the Lord encamps all around those who fear Him, And delivers them." (Psalm 34:7)

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1522 | date:2023-07-25T22:03:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

Thus, those who trust in the guardianship and intercession of the angels will be saved from both physical and spiritual harm. These radiant beings, placed in authority over all creation, have the power of intercession and protection, as revealed by the Prophet Enoch (Enoch 6:7).

In our era, we often face trials and tribulations akin to those of Saints Kirkus and Yelutan. Let us, therefore, implore the intercession and mediation of the great Archangel Gabriel, praying that he may reconcile us with our Creator.

May the prayers and intercession of this great Angel of Light be upon us all.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1524 | date:2023-07-26T22:30:02 ---


--- id:1525 | date:2023-07-26T22:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Discourse on the Divine Mystery of #Holy #Communion

1. To those who faithfully partake of Holy Communion

"Whoever endures to the end will be saved" Matthew 24:13

The essence of the Christian life resides not only in professing faith but in preserving it until our last breath. This was the counsel of our Lord to His disciples, whom He ordained and sent forth to proclaim the Gospel. He did not promise them a path strewn with roses, but a journey filled with trials, strewn with fiery tests and bearing the sharp edge of persecution.

It is of utmost importance to keep in mind that your victor, the Lord who has overcome the world, is by your side. Despite manifold hardships, remember to remain steadfast in your faith and love of God, and never to let your spiritual crown tumble.

Learn to treat the mundane affairs of this world with equanimity, cherishing the knowledge that all things on earth are but fleeting. With perseverance, transform every aspect of your life, be it commerce, agriculture, learning, marrying, rearing children, into an act of dedication to God. Remember that you do not bear the weight of your life alone; your God is by your side, transforming all your deeds into blessings. 

Heed the wisdom imparted in the scriptures to combat the devil's ploys. Do not disregard the tribulations you face, for these trials temper your faith. After savouring the grace of God, pray fervently that any worldly enticements that could wrench you from God's glory be quashed beneath your feet. 

2. To those desiring to faithfully partake of Holy Communion 

"Now is the day of salvation" /2 Corinthians 6:2/

The Apostle's exhortation that today is the day of our salvation should spur our determination to prepare for Holy Communion. 

The desire to partake in Holy Communion must be birthed from the Holy Spirit. It requires self-examination and contemplation: Why do I desire Communion? How deeply do I comprehend its significance? What are my expectations for life post-Communion? 

Saint Peter proclaimed, "Lord, to whom shall we go?" (John 6:68), emphasizing the enduring, life-giving truth that Christ alone has the words of eternal life. However, many stumbled at Christ's claim, "My flesh is real food, and my blood is real drink." Such people could not fathom how one could consume Christ's flesh and blood, and thus, they fell away. To prevent a similar downfall, ensure that your motivation for Communion stems not from anything else than the depth of your faith and from guidance provided by your spiritual leader.

As you approach Holy Communion, beware of the whispers of Satan, who seeks to fill your heart with doubts and fears.

3. To those distant from Holy Communion 

"If they still refuse to listen, tell it to the church" /Matthew 18:17/

No Christian who truly grasps the significance of Holy Communion would shun it. Are you hesitant to receive Communion due to personal conflicts or issues? Address these problems openly within the church, as instructed by the Gospel. 

Those who believe they can traverse this world unscathed by troubles are victims of a devilish delusion. Indeed, as followers of Christ, we should expect the world's disdain and hostility, for our Lord warned, "If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first" (John 15:18).

Consequently, if we avoid approaching God due to our problems, our error is grave. For no matter the chaos in our lives, we should never consider ourselves unworthy to draw near to God. 

Every Christian has the capacity to dedicate their life to the worship and glorification of God, just as they have the potential to prepare for eternal glory through Holy Communion.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1526 | date:2023-07-26T22:36:02 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

How long will you neglect the commands of your Lord and fail to comprehend the depth of your need for Him? Be aware that any attempt to navigate life's trials alone will inevitably lead to your downfall. Instead, strive to partake of the covenant of the Holy Communion, for unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you (John 6:53). Before your mortal body returns to the dust and your spirit to God who gave it (Ecclesiastes 12:7), engage deeply with this divine mystery. Remember, you are but a transient guest in this world. Partake of the Holy Communion and ensure your eternal dwelling with God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1528 | date:2023-07-27T22:00:38 ---


--- id:1529 | date:2023-07-27T22:00:38 ---


--- id:1530 | date:2023-07-27T22:00:38 ---


--- id:1531 | date:2023-07-27T22:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the holiness of the Virgin #Mary 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, today is the monthly feast if our Lady the Virgin Mary. Hence we send you a lesson about her purity sanctity and holiness so you may read partake from the day's blessings. We hence entrust you to read it and see how you can apply the learnings to your life.  

The Blessed Virgin Mary, our most Holy Lady, emerged from the lineage of Adam, as did all of humanity, comprising of soul and body. However, in terms of sanctity and honor, she is held higher not only than humans, but also than the holy angels. The celestial beings, despite possessing the freedom to choose between sin and virtue, are not burdened with human flesh and thus, are not perturbed by the sins committed in the flesh. Nonetheless, they stand steadfast in their divine service. Partially bearing the divine throne, some kneel before it, veiling their faces with two of their wings, soaring from one horizon to another with the remaining pair (Isaiah 6:2-3).

In contrast, the Holy Virgin Mary, before whom angels stood in reverence, veiling their faces, not only bore the divine throne within her womb for nine months and five days but also embraced the Lord in her arms. She comforted Him, nourished Him with the milk from her breasts, creating an unparalleled image of divine maternity.

The eternal Lord, desiring to save mankind, became incarnate. He chose to dwell in the Virgin's womb, to feed on her milk, referring to the Holy Virgin Mary as His mother. She fully embodied this divine motherhood, offering her everything to her Child. She bore Him in a humble cave in Bethlehem, a sight never seen even for the progeny of kings born in grand palaces. She listened to the angels' harmonious hymns, witnessed the shepherd's joy, perceived the animals' adoration, and received gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh from the magi. Yet, she remained humble and modest, escaping to Egypt when Herod sought her Child's life. She endured insults, hunger, and thirst for the sake of her divine Son.

She was not only in Bethlehem to hear the angels' songs, but also in Calvary to witness her Son's passion. When invited to the wedding feast at Cana, she brought her Son along, and on the Cross, He named His beloved disciple as her son. Is there a greater honor than being chosen as the Creator's mother? Is there a higher sanctity?

Yet, she did not grow prideful. When the angel brought her the news of her divine maternity, she responded with humility, "Behold, I am the handmaid of the Lord." (Luke 1:38). She did not boast nor demand recognition. Thus, who among the creatures can surpass this holy mother in honor, in nearness to God? She is referred to as the Holy of Holies, a title bestowed upon the inner sanctuary of the Temple, where God Himself resided. Yet, even this title seems insufficient to express her grandeur. Our human language is indeed limited to encapsulate her exceptional sanctity and honor. She merits much more than what we can express.

So, let us honor the Holy Virgin Mary, not merely because she is the Mother of God, but also for her humility, her obedience to God's will, and her unwavering faith. As we meditate upon her life and virtues, let us strive to emulate her and draw closer to her divine Son, our Lord Jesus Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1540 | date:2023-07-29T21:30:45 ---


--- id:1541 | date:2023-07-29T21:30:45 ---


--- id:1542 | date:2023-07-29T21:30:45 ---


--- id:1544 | date:2023-07-29T21:32:02 ---
👉🏾 About St. #George 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, today is the monthly feast of St. George in the EOTC and so we send you this short writing for you to learn about the life of this great saint and martyr. As you read to partake from the blessing of the day, think about how you can incorporate your learnings to your personal life. 

St. George is a Christian saint who is widely known for his courage, steadfast faith, and unwavering devotion to God. He was born in 280 A.D. in the city of Capadocia, which was part of the Eastern Empire in Asia Minor. He came from a wealthy and noble Christian family and followed the usual career path of young nobleman by joining the Roman army.

St. George's ability and charm quickly brought him promotion within the army, and eventually, he was made a tribune or an officer in the Imperial Guard by the Emperor. According to one story, he was a friend of Constantine, another officer who later became the first Christian emperor. The legend says that St. George accompanied Constantine to Britain and visited some holy places, including Glastonbury and Caerleon. When he returned to Nicomedia, the capital of the Eastern Empire, he encountered the fierce storm of persecution against Christians.

Diocletian, the emperor at the time, issued a formal edict against Christians on February 23, 303 A.D., which was the feast of Termhlalia. The edict mandated that all churches should be leveled to the ground, all sacred books burned, all Christians who held any honorable rank were to be degraded and deprived of civil rights, and all Christians who were not officials were to be reduced to slavery.

Despite the persecution, St. George boldly stood up for his faith. He pushed his way through the market to read the proclamation in front of the awe-stricken crowd and then deliberately tore down the Imperial edict and threw it away. This act of defiance resulted in his arrest and subsequent encounter with Diocletian.

The Emperor tried to seduce St. George by promising him a higher position in the empire, but St. George remained steadfast in his faith. Diocletian then began to threaten him with unbearable tortures that he would inflict on him. St. George refused to renounce his faith, even in the face of torture, and eventually was imprisoned.

St. George's chastity and suffering are two prominent aspects of his story. Diocletian arranged for a very beautiful woman to spend the night with him in prison to try to debauch him. St. George, who could only look forward to heavenly joy, began to pray and within a short while managed to swing her heart to the Christian faith. She seriously began to inquire about salvation, and by morning she declared that she found her true Bridegroom, Jesus Christ. With great courage, she announced her Christianity to the Emperor and his men and joined the other saintly martyrs.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1545 | date:2023-07-29T21:36:02 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

As for his suffering, the tortures that were applied to St. George are too numerous to mention in depth, but it is worth noting his utmost love for Christ. His body was torn by a special instrument that had metallic teeth, and our Lord Jesus rose him after his death, leading to the conversion of many pagans. He was put in active lime, and water was poured on it. Again the Lord returned him back to life. The Emperor became very agitated, imagining that the Saint was using magic. He called his top magician, Athanasius, and requested him to prepare a lethal poison to kill St. George.
The Saint signed over the cup with the sign of the cross before drinking it, and of course, no harm came to him. The Emperor's counselors informed him that St. George's magic was, in fact, contained in the sign of the Cross itself. Another cup was also given to the Saint, but this time with his hands tied behind his back. The Saint signed it by his head, saying: "shall I drink it from here or here or here or here!!!"

As St. George stood before the emperor and his court, he was given one last chance to renounce his Christian faith and offer sacrifice to the idols. The emperor promised him great rewards, honors, and privileges if he would do so. But St. George refused, declaring that he would never deny his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

In a final act of defiance, the emperor ordered St. George to be beheaded. The saint willingly accepted his fate and went to his death with courage and grace. He is said to have uttered a prayer to God, thanking Him for the privilege of dying for the faith.

After his martyrdom, St. George's reputation as a courageous and holy man quickly spread throughout the Christian world. Churches were built in his honor, and his feast day was celebrated on April 23rd. He became known as the patron saint of soldiers, knights, and all who defend the faith.

Today, the legend of St. George and the dragon is still celebrated in many cultures around the world. It has become a symbol of strength, courage, and the triumph of good over evil. The story of St. George reminds us that even in the face of persecution and adversity, we can remain steadfast in our faith and trust in God's love and mercy.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1555 | date:2023-07-31T22:02:06 ---


--- id:1556 | date:2023-07-31T22:02:06 ---


--- id:1557 | date:2023-07-31T22:02:06 ---


--- id:1558 | date:2023-07-31T22:03:02 ---
👉🏾 About #prayer 

👉 Question: How to develop a deep prayer life and strengthen my spiritual life every day; How can I get closer to God?

Answer: In the pursuit of a profound prayer life and the strengthening of your spiritual journey, it is crucial to approach this endeavor with unwavering commitment, a sincere heart, and a deep understanding of its significance. Let us delve into several key principles, which can serve as guiding lights on the path to experiencing a deeper connection with God through prayer.

First and foremost, prayer should be recognized as a sacred conversation with the Creator—a transcendent opportunity to engage in a direct dialogue with the Almighty. It is not a mere ritualistic duty or an obligation to be fulfilled mechanically; rather, it is an invitation to commune intimately with the divine. In embracing this understanding, one's love for prayer will flourish, and the recognition of its indispensable role in nurturing spiritual well-being will deepen. Let prayer be seen as the very essence of life itself, for just as a person ceases to breathe without air, one who neglects prayer becomes spiritually lifeless.

To truly enter into the spirit of prayer, it is essential to direct our thoughts and intentions towards God. Begin by expressing heartfelt gratitude for His abundant blessings in your life—recognize the gifts of love, grace, and mercy bestowed upon you. Humbly seek His guidance and assistance in all aspects of your existence, acknowledging your dependence upon Him. Remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, who admonished us to "watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation." Approach prayer with unwavering sincerity, knowing that it strengthens your resolve, deepens your understanding of God's will, and helps you align your life with His divine purpose.

In order to nurture your spiritual life, it is beneficial to establish clear goals in your prayer practice. Take time to reflect upon your purpose and aspirations in your journey as a Christian. Identify areas in need of growth and development, and bring them before God in prayer. Focus your prayers on cultivating virtues such as love, patience, humility, and forgiveness. Seek to deepen your faith, exploring the mysteries of divine truth and opening your heart to receive spiritual illumination. Embrace a spirit of service, praying for opportunities to extend compassion, kindness, and generosity to those in need. By establishing such intentional goals, you infuse your prayers with purpose and align them with your desired spiritual development.

Consistency in prayer is vital. Establish dedicated times each day, free from distractions, to commune with God. Find a peaceful and secluded space where you can withdraw from the noise and busyness of the world, creating an atmosphere conducive to deepening your connection with the divine. By adhering to a regular prayer routine, you establish a rhythm that reinforces your spiritual bond and fosters a sense of discipline in your spiritual life. Whether it be in the early morning, before meals, or before retiring to rest, choose a time that best suits your circumstances and commit to it unwaveringly.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:1559 | date:2023-07-31T22:06:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

While consistency is crucial, it is equally important to approach prayer with a genuine spirit of engagement and authenticity. Avoid the temptation to recite prayers mechanically, without heartfelt contemplation. Instead, strive to imbue each prayer with fervor, sincerity, and attentive presence. Cultivate an inner disposition of openness and receptivity, allowing your prayers to flow from the depths of your being. Approach God as a loving Father who longs to hear from His children, and pour out your heart before Him with childlike trust and vulnerability. By engaging in prayer with such authenticity, you create the space for deep transformation and spiritual growth to take root within you.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1562 | date:2023-08-02T21:32:51 ---


--- id:1563 | date:2023-08-02T21:32:51 ---


--- id:1564 | date:2023-08-02T21:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾About #Law, #Faith and #Conduct

Are we justified by keeping the law or by faith alone? Righteousness, faith, conduct

Beloved and esteemed brethren, who follow the orthodox teachings that we impart on the John's Repentance website, we humbly present to you an important lesson on the topic of Law, Faith, and Conduct.

As followers of Christ, we are called to live a life that is both righteous and pleasing in the eyes of our Lord. The question often arises, are we justified by keeping the law or by faith alone? We must remember that the foundation of righteousness is indeed faith, but faith without conduct is futile. As it is written in the Holy Scriptures, "Faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead" (James 2:17).

The law is an integral part of our lives, for it brings justice and condemnation to those who transgress it. If we are obedient and keep the law, we shall be justified, but if we refuse and rebel, we shall be devoured by the sword. The prophet Isaiah confirms this truth when he proclaims, "If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land: But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it" (Isa. 1:19-20).

Furthermore, we must not forget that our conscience, which is the spiritual law within us, guides us towards righteousness. It is through our conscience that we do good deeds and follow the moral laws that are ingrained in us. This serves as a reminder that there is one supreme God who rewards both the righteous and the wicked according to their deeds and judges impartially. As Saint Paul writes, "For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves" (Romans 2:14-14).

In the Orthodox Tewahedo doctrine, conduct is given the highest priority after religion. Conduct is inseparable from faith. As Saint Jacob reminds us, "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him?" (James 2:14). We are called to feed the hungry, sympathize with the bereaved, receive guests, give to one another, visit the sick, preach the gospel to the prisoners, and live in love. These are the hallmarks of Christian ethics, as exemplified in Matthew 25:15-30.

As followers of Christ, we are called to be the salt of the earth, and to stay away from the temptations of fleshly and worldly desires. We must turn away from revenge, malice, deceit, materialism, impurity, adultery, idol worship, and the burden of sin, and return to a good nature. As it is written, "Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account" (Matthew 5:11). Let us take up our crosses and follow Christ, for in Him, we shall find rest for our souls (Matthew 11:29).

Morality is the practical manifestation of our faith. If faith alone were sufficient, then even the demons, who are creatures of God, would have believed and testified that Christ is the Son of God.

As it is written in the Holy Gospel, "When the evil spirits saw him, they fell down before him and cried out, saying, 'You are the Son of God.'" (Mark 3:11) "And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and bowed down to him, shouting with a loud voice and saying, "Jesus, son of the Most High God, what have I to do with you? I swear by God that you will not torture me. "Come out of this man, you unclean spirit" (Mark 5:5-8).

In his message, the apostle Saint James said, "And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God." (Jas 2:19)

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:1565 | date:2023-08-02T21:36:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

As we understand from this, the devil also believes and trembles, but he does not perform good works. Therefore, a person who claims to be a Christian must not only have faith but also perform good works. The one who obeys God's commandments and lives accordingly will be saved from eternal judgment. "Whoever wants to follow me must deny themselves and take up their cross and follow me." This means that "carrying the cross" is the suffering we endure because of our Christian faith while living in the world. "In this world, you will have trouble. But take heart! I have overcome the world" (John 16:33).

At that time, the holy apostles who heard these words lived by carrying the cross, enduring the sufferings that came with living a Christian life and emerging victorious. They "persevered through many tribulations to enter the kingdom of God" (Acts 14:22). The journey of Christianity is full of suffering, just like the journey of Calvary. We must resist the desires of the flesh, live for the will of the soul, and fight against the world and the devil. We must persevere to the end, traveling along the narrow path and winning the crown of glory. As it is written, "Be faithful even to the point of death, and I will give you the crown of life" (Revelation 2:10).

In today's world, which is full of evil, social, psychological, and political problems, Christians, who are the seeds of Christ, must be the solution with their good Orthodox morality. "Turn from evil and do good; then you will dwell in the land forever" (Psalm 34:37).

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1566 | date:2023-08-03T22:01:38 ---


--- id:1567 | date:2023-08-03T22:01:38 ---


--- id:1568 | date:2023-08-03T22:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Virtue of #Chastity and #virginity: A Treatise for Our Time

Part One: On the Protection of Purity and the Struggle Against Temptation

I. Of the Perils of Fornication

Take heed of the words of the Apostle: "the marriage bed is to be undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers God will judge" (Hebrews 13:4). As fornication is not marriage, nor is it the commencement of marriage, one who violates chastity must seek repentance. Beware, young souls, for the Enemy does not commence his attack with gross sins; rather, he subtly draws away your conscience from remembrance of God.

The fathers advise that in resisting the devil's seductions, you must arm yourselves with prayer and spiritual labor, remembering the Creator in your youth (Ecclesiastes 12:1). Prayer is the fire that scorches the serpent's eye, for he fears it above all.

II. On Resisting the Siren Calls of the World

Flee from the temptation: Be ever vigilant against the cries of temptation that the Evil One whispers around you. Though the buzz of sin surrounds you in all places, you cannot merely ignore it; instead, avert your attention from it. Arm yourself with the Word of God, and partake in the spiritual life through Scripture, particularly the Gospel of John.

Against the Sin of the Devil: For the youth who is unable to fend off the serpent's wiles, he must be cautious of sin's allure. Strive to flee from evil desires, for in doing so, you run toward sanctification. Engage immediately in spiritual work: prayer, worship, or calling upon a spiritual father.

On Dreams and Temptations: Sometimes the battle against sin invades even your dreams. Be wary not to follow the path of thoughts into sin and seek guidance from the spiritual fathers if your mind becomes troubled. Let not idle thoughts become a weapon for Satan.

III. On the Act of Repenting

Should a soul fall into the traps laid by the Tempter, it must not despair. Rather, it must turn quickly to repentance, as King David did, and strive never to return to that sin. If one falls repeatedly, let him rise again and again through constant repentance, always relying on the guidance of spiritual fathers.

IV. An Exhortation to Parents

Fathers and mothers, if you perceive your children ensnared by sin, urge them to repentance rather than despair. For despair may lead them to further sin, and even apostasy. Your duty is to guide them on the path of righteousness and not to cast stones at them.

Part Two: Concluding Remarks

In an age filled with temptations and worldly distractions, it is a sacred duty for each soul to preserve its chastity. We must remember that it is not merely a call to abstain from sin, but a positive invitation to grow in virtue and sanctity.

Let the words of the Psalmist guide you: "Flee from evil, and do good" (Psalm 33:14), for they are intertwined and inseparable. Let us all, then, strive to walk in the footsteps of the saints, ever aiming to live a life of purity, holiness, and unswerving devotion to our Lord and Savior.

May His grace keep you, and may you ever abide in His love. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1569 | date:2023-08-04T22:01:06 ---


--- id:1570 | date:2023-08-04T22:01:06 ---


--- id:1571 | date:2023-08-04T22:01:06 ---


--- id:1572 | date:2023-08-04T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the grace of a life of #repentance 

Through the sacred act of repentance, we unearth the glorious grace of God, which is not simply a removal of punishment but a grand elevation of our very being. It is as if one were plucked from the darkest pit and set amongst the stars. What is repentance but a return to the Father, an awakening of the soul, a casting off of the heavy garments of sin, and a putting on of the radiant robe of righteousness?

For this reason, the Church, as a loving mother, incessantly calls her children to a life of repentance. Not as slaves fearing the whip, but as children longing for the embrace of their Father. Though it involves sorrow for sins, this sorrow is not as the despair of the world but is filled with hope and love. It is a godly sorrow, leading to salvation.

Do not think, dear members, that the act of repentance is a mere legal transaction, an exchange of punishment. Nay, it is a transformation of the soul, a rekindling of the divine image within us. In repentance, we find not a stern judge but a loving Father. For, like the prodigal son, we may squander our inheritance, but through repentance, we find our way back to our Father's house, where a feast is prepared for us.

Consider the suffering that accompanies repentance as a divine medicine, a healing balm for our wounded souls. Though it may sting for a moment, it brings eternal health. A small measure of temporal discomfort may indeed save us from the unquenchable fire.

The sacrament of penance is a wellspring of grace, and its waters wash us anew. For when we fall into sin, we are like a vessel cracked and broken. But through confession and absolution, we are made whole again. The grace of baptism, which may have grown dim through our transgressions, is rekindled and shines brightly once more.

In this mystical dance of repentance, we are not alone; we are guided by the priests, the stewards of God's mysteries, who are given the divine authority to bind and loose. Through their hands, the mercy of Christ is poured upon us.

Remember, dear children of God, that repentance is not merely an act but a way of life. It is a continual turning to God, a perpetual longing for holiness, a ceaseless striving towards perfection. It is the very heartbeat of the Christian life.

Let us, therefore, embrace this life of repentance with joy and thanksgiving. Let us take up our cross and follow Christ, knowing that through this narrow path, we shall find eternal life.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1579 | date:2023-08-05T21:42:26 ---


--- id:1580 | date:2023-08-05T21:42:33 ---


--- id:1581 | date:2023-08-05T21:43:03 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Feast of the #Ascension, #Dormition of the #Theotokos

May the peace of the Lord be with you, dear members. Let us examine the mystery and wonder of St. Mary's transition from earthly life to eternal glory, a fulfillment of the divine destiny that she accepted with her humble "yes" to the angel's message.

In the tradition of the Holy Orthodox Church, the Feast of the Dormition is not simply a commemoration of Mary's death, but a celebration of her "falling asleep," a gentle passing into the arms of her Divine Son, and her glorious Assumption into heaven. It is a feast wrapped in profound theology and profound love, a love that extends from the Mother of God to all humanity.

I. The Meaning and Significance of the Feast

The Feast of the Dormition reminds us of the unique role the Theotokos plays in salvation. It echoes the profound words of the angel Gabriel, "Rejoice, full of grace, the Lord is with thee; blessed art thou among women." In her obedience, humility, and purity, Mary becomes the very vessel of God's incarnation, the bridge between heaven and earth.

The Dormition is a reflection of our journey, a journey filled with trials, temptations, but crowned with hope. Mary's earthly life was filled with sorrow and joy, suffering and consolation, darkness and illumination. In her, we see our struggles and our hope, for her Dormition is but a beginning, not an end.

II. The Historical Context of the Feast

This Feast, dear brethren, has its roots in the early Christian tradition. It is one of the Twelve Great Feasts of the Church, deeply embedded in the liturgical and spiritual life of the faithful. The earliest references to the Dormition come from the writings of the Church Fathers, reflecting a rich and living Tradition.

The event of Mary's Dormition is surrounded by miraculous occurrences and the presence of the Apostles, who were gathered miraculously from the various places where they were preaching. The unbelief of a Jew led to a miracle that affirmed the reverence of the Holy Mother, and the tomb was found empty, pointing to her Assumption.

III. The Theological Understanding of the Feast

The Dormition of the Theotokos is not merely a historical event; it is a theological truth that speaks volumes about human destiny and God's love. Mary's bodily assumption into heaven is a foretaste of our resurrection at the Second Coming of Christ. It reminds us that our bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, and they too will be glorified.

The iconography and hymnography of the Feast depict not merely an event but a mystery. In the icon, we see Christ holding a child, representing Mary's soul, a beautiful symbol of her becoming a child of God, even as she is His mother. The hymns of the Feast ring with poetic theology, declaring Mary as the "living ark" who contained the Uncontainable.

IV. The Practical and Spiritual Reflection of the Feast

This Feast calls us, beloved, to reflection and action. It calls us to imitate the virtues of the Theotokos – her humility, obedience, love, and purity. We are summoned to a life of prayer, fasting, and repentance, to seek the intercessions of the Holy Mother, and to aspire for the heavenly kingdom.

During the fast leading to the Feast, we repeat the prayer of the "Hail Mary" and the praises of the Theotokos, grounding ourselves in devotion and love. It is a time to seek solace in the spiritual life, to nourish ourselves with the holy scriptures, to participate in the Divine Liturgy, and to immerse ourselves in the sacramental life of the Church.

Conclusion

The Feast of the Dormition is not merely a day in the calendar but a profound theology, a living tradition, a spiritual journey. It connects us to the Incarnation, Passion, Resurrection, and the Second Coming. It connects us to Christ and to one another.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1582 | date:2023-08-05T21:46:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

May the Theotokos and Ever-Virgin Mary intercede for us. May her Dormition be our hope, her life our model, her love our guide. Let us fast, let us pray, let us love as she loved, and let us hope as she hoped. Through her intercessions, may God grant us grace to complete our journey in faith, in hope, in love.

In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1585 | date:2023-08-06T22:04:20 ---


--- id:1586 | date:2023-08-06T22:05:43 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Power of #Fasting

Dear respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual services on John's Repentance website, today we are sharing an important lesson on the subject from the book "Orthodox Mind" written by Deacon Yohannes Getachew. We urge you to read and learn from it.

People who do not understand the power of fasting may consider it trivial and useless. However, the ignorance of people can never eliminate the greatness of fasting. We do not have to be outside of fasting to understand its power. We distinguish the taste of food by tasting, not by hearing, so it is not surprising that its taste is not known if one does not taste it while fasting. Some people want to deny its importance and convince others that it is useless. In fact, even a delicious meal tasted by a sick person does not taste good. It is not because the food is not tasty, but because the person who tasted it is sick.

The blindness of the outer eye does not hinder the brightness of the inner wine. But we must realize that the blindness of the inner eye has the power to blind the outer eye as well. Although fasting is hated by gluttons, if they knew the harm of their gluttony and used fasting as a medicine, they would understand its power to keep diseases away. Without understanding the power of fasting, we should be careful not to expose ourselves to diseases of the body and soul by abstaining from fasting. Saint Jared explains the greatness of fasting with wonder - "Look at the greatness and glory of fasting, it is sorrow for fools and joy for the wise." This clearly indicates that the power of fasting is defined by the wise. People who live in laziness and indifference may not understand the power of fasting because their desires divert their vision. In fact, the scholar said, "Fasting is a bridle; its fruit is sweet." Therefore, let us not underestimate fasting and make it easy. He advises us not to misunderstand it because of our laziness. So, fools may perceive its taste as bitter, but let us pray for them for the harm caused by distancing themselves from fasting, and let us not be carried away by their ignorance.

Saint Jared says, "Fasting has great benefits; it frees the soul from sin; it teaches the youth to be righteous and self-controlled. Fasting is holy; it brings peace; it gives happiness to the person who does it." Let us remember that we have lost peace, chastity, happiness, and favor in our lives because we spend most of our time in gluttony outside of fasting. Let us realize that our glory and beauty are within fasting due to God's grace.

The apostles explained to us the power of fasting in this way: "Furthermore, those who are being baptized should fast before baptism, and those who baptize should also fast if they can. You must tell the baptized person that they should fast one or two days before baptism. Your fasting should never be the same as that of the hypocrites." They explained to us that not only those being baptized but also the baptizer should fast before baptism.

It is clear that this system is made to honor the mystery of baptism and to make us go to the mystery water in purity. Even the baptizer should be armed with the power of fasting to protect themselves from pride or thinking highly of themselves for being a baptizer. The person who is baptized must cleanse their body by fasting so that they do not think of the holy water of baptism as any ordinary water. It should be done in holiness and not in hypocrisy like the Pharisees. The shepherd Herma revealed the greatness and power of fasting: "Fasting is very important, and it makes us keep the commandments of the Lord. (First of all, protect yourself from evil speech, evil will, protect your mind from loving anything of this world. If you refrain from doing these evil things, your fast will be perfect.) He explained to us the greatness of fasting. 

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1587 | date:2023-08-06T22:07:02 ---
The Power of Fasting

(Part 2)

This same scholar told us that we should follow what is prescribed in the scriptures during fasting and warned us not to eat anything other than bread and water on the day of our fasting.

He also emphasized that during our fasting, we should give the money that we would have spent on food during the day to those who have lost their spouses, parents, or those who are in need. In doing so, we make our conscience work with humility and compassion, and those in need pray for us. If we fast in this way, our fasting will be accepted as a sacrifice. He explained to us how we should fast and the benefits we can gain from fasting.

To think that we are fasting just because we are not eating food is to misunderstand fasting. We should fast with a pure heart by performing acts of kindness, realizing that we are not gaining anything by merely abstaining from food. As a result of fasting, we receive a beautiful heavenly reward for the good deeds we do for the needy and hungry. Many people fast without believing and understanding that fasting is powerful, so they do not benefit from fasting. It is sad to see them pretending to fast to be seen and respected by others, when they should be more humble in their fasting.

Fasting is a great heavenly power, a spiritual medicine that cures the diseases of sin and evil. If a person who is far away from God due to the weakness of their behavior believes in the purity of fasting and uses it to overcome their problems, it is a perfect cure. St. Ambrose of Milan says: Fasting is heavenly in its definition. Fasting is spiritual food for the growth of the soul. Fasting is an angelic life. Fasting is the death of sin, the solution of salvation, the source of grace, and the foundation of purity. Through fasting, we draw closer to God because it is spiritual and heavenly, and we become like heavenly angels.

For the food of the soul's goodness is the source of its purity. Our soul craves fasting like bread. Fasting is not only to draw closer to God but also to make God draw closer to us in His mercy. It is the heavenly weapon of true Christians. Pope Clement says: "Through your prayers, fasting, regular watchfulness, and other good works, overcome the flesh with the power of the Holy Spirit." The will of the flesh is evil in itself, and we do not condemn it, but it is the sinful tendency that our soul merges with our body. The will of the flesh refers to the tendency of human beings to sin, and the will of the soul refers to our tendency to do good deeds. Unlike the Gnostics, the church does not observe that the body is impure, and the soul is holy. If we consider powerful fasting as an asset before we die, we can conquer our sinful tendencies.

In the story of the fathers of Bereh, Aba Esdros said, "If you fast all the time, you will not be full of pride. If you think you are superior because of fasting, it is better for you to eat meat than to do this. It is better to eat meat than to fill yourself with pride and self-respect." We are special because of our fasting, but we should not think about ourselves. Our fasting should not be a reason for pride, but a source of humility.

Mar Isaac said, "Fasting is the beginning of all the work of legacy. It inspires us with the power of fasting by saying that fasting is the glory of purity, the ornament of virginity and purity, and the beginning of the work of the gospel. Fasting is the mother of prayer, the repository of pearls. She inspires every good work. Conversely, a person who breaks their fast has distanced themselves from all good deeds. We can understand from this the extent of the damage caused by not fasting. Let us understand that our Holy Church arms her children with this spiritual power when she encourages us to fast through her seven proclamations.

(Continued) 

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1592 | date:2023-08-07T22:30:24 ---
👉🏾 About how to overcome #anxiety
 
Question: How can I overcome my anxiety? How can I find peace in the midst of life's trials?

Answer: Are we, as Orthodox Christians, meant to worry? Our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, told us not to worry, so why are we worried? When a person is separated from God, sin becomes their dwelling place. Sin and lack of understanding deprives us from peace and makes us anxious.

A person without God has no peace or sleep. In general, a person who is dwelling in sin loses everything, and is filled with anxiety. Therefore, we are told not to worry and to "Cast all your worries on God, for He cares for you" (1 Peter 5:7).

In the sixth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew, it is written, "And why do you worry about clothes? See how the flowers of the field grow. They do not labor or spin. Yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all his splendor was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, will He not much more clothe you—you of little faith? So do not worry, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’ For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well" (Matthew 6:28-33).

This is why Orthodox Christians say "Our Father" in prayer, asking God to "have mercy on us as a father has compassion on his children" (Psalm 103:13). In addition, in Psalm 102, verse 1, it is written, "Praise the Lord, my soul; all my inmost being, praise His holy name. Praise the Lord, my soul, and forget not all His benefits—who forgives all your sins and heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit and crowns you with love and compassion, who satisfies your desires with good things so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s."

If God has mercy on us and can fulfill our desires, why should we worry? Worrying and thinking are different. We can think, dream, and plan without worrying. Worry is the result of despair, but we are people who have hope.

If we have everything we need with God, why should we give up? Our purpose is to do what we can with God and never give up hope. If we fall into sin, we repent, for "the one who conceals their sins does not prosper, but the one who confesses and renounces them finds mercy" (Proverbs 28:13). If we are reconciled to God through repentance, what we lost will be returned to us. Therefore, we should not give up but rather think it through.

Let us give all our worries to God, focus on what is expected of us, and leave the rest to Him. As the apostles said, "Cast all your anxiety on Him because He cares for you" (1 Peter 5:7). We need to understand that we are required to do this.

Knowing that anxiety is the result of sin and a sign of separation from God, the solution is to live with God, repent of our sins, listen to God, and let go of things that worry us.

Peace can be found in the midst of life's trials when we live with God. Jesus Christ is the Prince of Peace, and in John 14:27, He said, "Peace I leave with you". 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1594 | date:2023-08-08T22:00:02 ---


--- id:1595 | date:2023-08-08T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #patience, #pride and #greed 

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you a lesson on patience pride and greed so that you may learn about these major topics in our Church and apply the learnings in your life, especially during this fasting season. 

I. Impatience
The virtue of patience is a glowing ember in the heart that illumines the dark path of impatience. Impatience is indeed a root of evil that finds its nourishment in the soil of haste and instability. As the lesson vividly illustrates, it was through impatience that our first parents, Adam and Eve, were led astray by the serpent's whispers.

To the pious soul, patience is a fortress that shields against the storms of earthly desires and passions. It is not merely the absence of haste but a manifestation of divine wisdom, as revealed in Christ's own example. His silence before the shearers, His endurance upon the Cross, reflects the profound depth of His patience, a virtue that mortifies death itself. For as it is written, "A sin planted in haste is rooted out by patience."

II. Pride
Pride, or arrogance, is a festering wound in the soul, the original sin that cast Lucifer from the heavenly realms. It is a declaration of self-sufficiency, a refusal to acknowledge our true state of dependence upon the Almighty God.

In Christ, we find the antidote to pride: humility and obedience. Christ's willing submission unto death, even death on the Cross, stands as a beacon of hope for our fallen nature. In Him, obedience becomes the key that unlocks the gate to eternal life, breaking the shackles of disobedience that bound humanity to death. Our call is to "imitate Christ by obeying," for "Man can bear the image of Christ only when he is obedient."

III. Greed
Greed, that insatiable lust for more, is an ailment that blinds the soul to the richness of God's grace. Like a parasite, it gnaws at contentment, leaving behind a void filled only with emptiness and longing.

Christ's response to greed is a lesson in generosity. The Son of Man, who did not cling to what was His, emptied Himself, giving even His very life for the salvation of humanity. In His example, we find the grace to conquer the vice of greed. "Death, which entered greedily, came out generously," and we are called to walk in the footsteps of our Savior, learning to be not greedy, but generous.

Conclusion
In our struggle against the evils of Impatience, Pride, and Greed, let us take up the armor of the virtues of Patience, Humility, and Generosity, as manifested in the life of Christ. These virtues are not mere abstractions but the very lifeblood of our salvation. They are a path trodden by the saints, guided by the wisdom of the Fathers, and made possible through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.

By walking this path, we engage in a daily struggle to cleanse our souls from the stains of worldly passions. We turn our gaze toward Heaven and discover, in the silence of the heart, the gentle whisper of the Holy Spirit calling us to a life of righteousness and peace.

May this lesson be a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path, that we may "run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith" (Hebrews 12:1-2), and thus enter into the joy of our Lord. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1597 | date:2023-08-09T22:01:16 ---


--- id:1598 | date:2023-08-09T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾 A Divine Invitation to the Heavenly Banquet

👉🏾 The Unfathomable Mystery of the Holy #Eucharist and the Grace therein

Blessed children of the Most High God, let us approach with humble hearts and trembling souls to contemplate the ineffable mystery of the Holy Eucharist, the divine sacrament which transcends all human understanding and through which the grace of God flows like a river of living water.

It is through the Holy Eucharist that we are invited to partake in the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, offered for the life of the world. Behold, the bread and wine, ordinary elements of this earthly realm, are transformed into the very essence of Christ Himself by the mighty act of the Holy Spirit and the prayerful invocation of the priest. What appears as bread and wine is, in substance, the flesh and blood of the Incarnate Word.

The First Grace: Reconciliation with the Creator

The chasm that sin created between man and his Maker is bridged through this great mystery. The divine words of our Savior echo throughout the ages, "For this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins" (Matthew 26:28). It is in the Eucharist that the penitent believer finds forgiveness, peace, and the first taste of reconciliation with God.

The Second Grace: Abiding in Christ, and Christ in Us

"Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me" (John 15:4). This profound communion with Christ is attained through the Holy Eucharist. Like branches connected to the vine, we are nourished by Christ's Body and Blood, infused with His divine life, so that we may bear the fruits of the Spirit.

The Third Grace: Eternal Life and the Promise of Resurrection

The mystery of the Eucharist transcends the bounds of time and space and grants us a foretaste of eternal life. The words of our Lord assure us, "Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day" (John 6:54). Thus, the Eucharist becomes our passage from death into life, from temporal existence into eternal communion with God.

The Fourth Grace: Spiritual Sustenance and the Unity of the Church

Through this divine sacrament, our souls are fed with the true spiritual nourishment that quenches all hunger and thirst. The Eucharist also unites us with one another, forging a bond that transcends all earthly divisions. As the Apostle Paul proclaims, "Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread" (1 Corinthians 10:17).

Dear brothers and sisters in Christ, let us approach this holy mystery with awe and reverence, with hearts prepared by fasting, confession, and sincere repentance. May we never take lightly this divine gift but recognize in it the embodiment of God's infinite love, grace, and invitation to His eternal Kingdom. Let the grace found in the Holy Eucharist guide us in our earthly pilgrimage towards our true home, where we shall behold our Lord face to face, rejoicing forever in His divine presence. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1604 | date:2023-08-10T22:50:30 ---


--- id:1605 | date:2023-08-10T22:53:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Power of #Fasting

(Part 3)

In his essay on Fasting and Almsgiving, the scholar explains: "Fasting purifies the soul, elevates the mind, subjugates our body to our soul, causes repentance and humility in the heart, dispels the clouds of desire for adultery, extinguishes the fire of lust, ignites the true light of purity, and allows God to enter us again."

The scholar emphasizes the blessings and power of fasting. Therefore, we cannot fully understand fasting without experiencing it. If we develop a love for fasting, as the true believers call it, we will never let it go.

Respecting and sanctifying fasting is a manifestation of the Christian journey. Father Jerome also says: "Fasting is not only the perfection of goodness, but the foundation of all good things. Fasting embodies the virtues of holiness, purity, and prudence. Without fasting, no one can see God." Fasting is considered great because it is the womb of kindness where all goodness is born. Although the book says that only the pure in heart will see God, we should not forget that fasting is the source of purity of heart. A person who truly fasts, who does not succumb to diabolical temptations, carefully examines good deeds, understands them, and performs them. Through pure fasting, which is loved by God, we can achieve good deeds without pretending or hypocrisy.

Therefore, if we apply fasting to gain spiritual power, we should refrain from taking and selling other people's money, from violence and aggression, from greed and indulgence, from laughing at the expense of others, and from all evil deeds such as deceit, resentment, anger, lies, and backbiting.

If our heart (our mind) is in conflict with other organs, we cannot do evil to them because the heart is the king of all organs. Therefore, if we do not follow the scholar's teachings on fasting, we will not be able to gain the power of fasting and make it our own. Let us strive diligently to follow the scholar's teachings.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1606 | date:2023-08-11T22:01:01 ---


--- id:1607 | date:2023-08-11T22:01:01 ---


--- id:1608 | date:2023-08-11T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Fasting (Part 4)

In our church system, fasting is divided into three parts, namely:

1. Proclamation Fasting (Associational Fasting): This type of fasting is a mandatory fast that every Christian must observe. It is a fast that the church proclaims to all believers to fast for a specific time and for a known reason, and believers fast according to the proclamation.

2. Repentance Fasting: Repentance fasting is a type of fasting that people who have wronged God and fallen into sin observe when they repent of their wrongdoing, confess their sins to their spiritual guide, and fast under their guidance.

3. Voluntary Fast (Private Fast): This type of fast is observed by some sincere Christians who are devoted to God. They fast privately (in secret) without letting others know about it (without displaying pharisaical behavior) in order to receive more grace and blessings from their Creator. In this way, many voluntarily fast year after year, eating only enough to stay alive.

The Seven Fasts 

According to the canon of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, there are seven laws of fasting. They are:

Major Lent (Fasting of Jesus)
Fasting of Nineveh
Fasting of Gad
Fasting on Wednesdays and Fridays
Fasting of the Prophets
Fasting of the Apostles
Fasting of the Migration (Fasting of Maryam)
The duration of fasting during these fasting seasons is determined by spiritual justice. For example, Wednesdays and Fridays are fasted until nine o'clock, during the first week of Lent until twelve o'clock, from Holy Monday to Nicodemus Friday until eleven o'clock, and during Semune Passion until one o'clock in the afternoon (or for a total of 13 hours). (Source: Zena Church newspaper, 50th year, No. 146, May 1988)

We use the term "personal fasting of the will" to refer to private fasting, while the term "fasting of the decree" refers to the legal fast that is a spiritual duty of all Christians. However, this does not conflict with the fact that we worship God as we please. We should understand that human beings are creatures with free will to do what they like and leave what they dislike.

The decree fasts are known to everyone, as the name itself indicates that the proclamation fasts are for a specified number of days and until a certain time of the day. Therefore, even if those who are fasting publicly declare that they are fasting, their praise will not be in vain. In fact, they are considered to have preached that it is the season of fasting and that all Christians should fast. This is one of the differences between public and private fasts. When a person fasts privately, no one should know about it except his penitent father and himself. Therefore, it is preferable for a person who voluntarily fasts with a personal purpose and decision to be careful not to expose himself to vain praise. Until the end of his fast, he should enter a monastery, close himself in a cave, and fast while communicating with God in complete inspiration and silence. Our Lord Jesus Christ said, "When ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; That thou appear not unto men too fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly." The scholars of the church teach that this teaching refers to voluntary fasting instead of public fasting. (Matthew 6:16)

(continued) 👇🏾

--- id:1609 | date:2023-08-11T22:06:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Fasting (Part 5)

When we fast, we should not do it to show others, but rather to please God. However, even if we don't talk about our fast during the proclamation of the fast, it is still known that we are fasting because the church has proclaimed it and we are part of the church. Even if it is known to others, our praise will not be in vain unless we seek it or do it intentionally.

During fasting, we should seek guidance from the fathers who teach us about the heavenly realm and the Gospel. We should also avoid spending time with friends who encourage us to indulge in the desires of the flesh, as well as foods, drinks, situations, and places that arouse the desires of the flesh. Our God, who is the creator of all laws and blessings, told the people of Israel the proper way to fast, "Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to cover him, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?" (Isaiah 58:7) In addition to this, the phrase "to cut your bread for the hungry" indicates that fasting should be accompanied by giving to those in need. When God reprimanded the Israelites who fasted without keeping the fast, He said, "Behold, on the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure, and oppress all your workers. Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to be heard on high." (Isaiah 58:3-6) When we fast, we should avoid wrongdoing and seek spiritual blessings.

Some contemporaries, who are more concerned with their physical bodies than their souls, claim to know that since the Lord has commanded us to fast, He has not specified the time and place for us to fast. However, we listen to the apostles and teachers based on what our Lord Jesus Christ said to the apostles, "And behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age." (Matthew 28:20) We are guided by the Holy Spirit and accept the guidelines for fasting, eating, praying, and following the church's decision. "For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope." (Romans 15:4) We follow the system that the apostles and righteous fathers have written for us.

May the Holy God's name be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1610 | date:2023-08-12T21:30:33 ---


--- id:1612 | date:2023-08-12T21:34:25 ---


--- id:1613 | date:2023-08-12T21:34:31 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Divine Conception of Our Lady, the #Virgin #Mary

At the end of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New, a significant event transpired, not detailed in the scriptures but deeply revered in the traditions of our Holy Orthodox Church: the conception of Our Lady, the Virgin Mary, on August 13th, sixteen years prior to the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ.

The sacred scripture, in its divine wisdom, leaves us only hints and allusions regarding the life of the Virgin prior to the Annunciation. Nevertheless, one truth is transparently clear: she descends from the esteemed lineage of David.

But beyond the pages of the Holy Bible, the rich tapestry of the church's history and tradition brings forth a fuller understanding. Mary's ancestral lineage was a confluence of two great tribes of Israel: Judah, from her father's side, and Levi, from her mother's. This reveals a harmonious blending of kingly and priestly lineages, a fitting heritage for the Mother of the King of Kings.

From the very genesis of humanity's fall, when Adam and Eve succumbed to the serpent's deception, God had already set in motion a plan of redemption. He intimated the coming of the Virgin Mary and her divine Son in Genesis 3:15, a promise that the apostle Paul reaffirms in his letter to the Galatians.

The prophetic voices of old, especially Prophet Isaiah, bore testament to the Virgin's unique role in the divine plan. "Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel." What a profound prophecy! That God would dwell among His people, born of a virgin.

Diving deeper into the story, we learn of the Virgin Mary's ancestors, Tektana and Tariqa, individuals of immense wealth and prestige. Yet, their affluence did not shield them from the pain of childlessness, a profound societal stigma in those times. In their desolation, they sought solace in prayer, and God, in His mercy, revealed to them through dreams the promise of a lineage that would culminate in the birth of a most blessed daughter, our Virgin Mary.

One can only imagine the trials and tribulations Saint Hanna faced due to her barrenness, particularly in an era when fertility was deemed a divine blessing. Isolated and ostracized in the temple, she, along with her husband Jacob, was comforted by a divine revelation. Through dreams, God made it known that they were to be blessed with a daughter of unparalleled honor.

And so, by God's will and not merely the union of a man and a woman, on that blessed night of August 13th, Saint Hanna conceived the Virgin Mary. People from far and wide came to witness this marvel, for even in the womb, the Virgin was a testament to God's miraculous works.

The venerable bishop of Bhinsa, Father Hriakos, captured this divine conception beautifully when he proclaimed, "Virgin, you were not conceived by carnal thoughts, but by a legal provision from God."

As we reflect upon this divine event, may we always seek the intercession of the Virgin Mary, and may her blessings be upon us all.

May the Holy God's name be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1616 | date:2023-08-13T22:02:18 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A brief about #John's #Repentance spiritual service

This service is the English version of our Amharic service የዮሐንስ ንስሐ፦ https://t.me/+ReLdpifiso4Sz04q

The purpose of this service is to bridge the language barrier that many face when trying to learn about the faith and bring the success we had with the Amharic program to a whole new set of audience. 

We provide 24/7 Q&A support, lessons on the major feasts, lessons on the teachings of the church, a medium where fellow Orthodox can connect, discuss and encourage one onother. Members can ask publicly on Telegram or privately on Facebook, Telegram or using our email address. 

We also provide spiritual support over phone by assisting in a number of ways. 

We post everyday at 11:30pm EST on Telegram and have presence in other social medias as well: 

Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/johnrepentancechristianorthodox
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/johnsrepentance.orthodox.qna/
Telegram: https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh
TikTok: https://www.tiktok.com/@orthodoxqnas?_t=8ZaNxODGqqp&_r=1
Website: yohannesneseha.org (click English for language)

The intended audience for our service is anyone age 16 and up. This is a very safe space where people ask about anything and everything which is why we have an age restriction. However we do not have a faith restriction: anyone who wants to learn about the faith is welcome. They can ask questions, read what we post, call us and use the service to help them in their spiritual journey. 

Our service is not common and the best way to understand the value we offer is to experience it by asking questions, reading regularly, inviting friends, communicating with your fellow brothes and sisters, calling us for spiritual support, staying fully engaged and practicing what you learn. 

You may also share hyms, icons, news and so forth that you think is super useful to your Orthodox brothers and sisters as long as it doesn't have a link.

You can search through content using this method: 

Say you want to read about marriage, then you search #marriage and all the answers and lessons that have 'marriage' as their topic will show up. If you want to read a lesson, you choose the ones that has 3 hands (👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾) whereas if you want Q&A, you choose the ones thtat have 1 hand only (👉🏾). 

Say you want to search all the content that have both 'repentance' and 'fornication' in the topic, then you search: #repentance #fornication and you will get all the relevant results. 

Clicking the highlighted text above will also take you to those topics.

This service has the blessings of Abune Ermias (Bishop) which can be seen in some of our YouTube videos (in Amharic), is mainly lead by Like Hiruyan Tserse Abebe (Priest, church Scholar and head of the EOTC's public relations department), Aba Wolde Giorgis (Monk), Memeher Simur Getenet (priest and Church scholar)

Although the above are the major personals in the service, there are numerous others who serve day and night as volunteers.

Although the Church that has initiated this service is the EOTC, we sometimes reference and allow you to post material from any Orthodox Church, eastern and oriental.   

It is the order of God that His people first be served and thus we have done for the past three years with the Amharic service. By the will of God we are now providing the service in English so everyone can learn about the true faith regardless of their background. Hence we urge you to spread awareness of this service and be a reason for the salvation of your friends, family and even coworkers. Do not hide God's talent in the ground (The Parable of the Talents Matthew 25:14-30)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1619 | date:2023-08-14T22:00:02 ---


--- id:1620 | date:2023-08-14T22:00:02 ---


--- id:1621 | date:2023-08-14T22:00:02 ---


--- id:1622 | date:2023-08-14T22:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Prayer 

"Pray unto him that thy way may be made straight" Tobi 4:9

Dear and respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual service conveyed on John's Repentance website, today we share an important lesson on the topic of prayer. We urge you to read and learn from it. 
 
The meaning of prayer is broad and deep:-
 
Prayer is a spiritual bridge through which man can connect with God.

Prayer is a tool of communication between man and God. (Matthew 6:6)

Prayer is a spiritual tool to defeat our enemy Satan.

Prayer is a special application that we ask for strength from the living God.

Prayer is a thanksgiving to God.

Prayer is a way we promise to God secretly that we will do legacy work once our prayer is answered.
 
Prayer is a way for a person to communicate with the Creator through his religion, thanking the Creator and begging for the forgiveness of sins. There is no wall that can prevent Him from hearing our prayers as long as we repent, do His will, and call upon Him with faith and a broken heart. The main skill to have in prayer is a broken heart, which includes: a broken heart, a broken spirit, tears, being humble and  refraining from revenge.
 
Prayer is a special tool through which we communicate with God. For this, we only need a broken heart, and we are not required to have a special speech style like we do when talking to a person. Nor do we have to explain the matter from beginning to end as He knows what we need more than we do. (Romans 1:27) If we speak to him with a pure heart, at any moment, God will listen to our prayers. God doesn't say, "I can't talk to you now, come back another time." He is always near to hear us the moment we come to talk to him.
 
In fact, the basis of prayer is the word of God: "Ask and it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and it will be opened to you." (Matthew 7:7) Prayer is one of the rituals commanded by God. It includes worship, supplication, repentance, intercession, worship, love, vows and forgiveness.
 
As written in Genesis 2:7, God created man and breathed into him the breath of life through his mouth, and he became a living soul.  This living soul thirsts for God. The means for this is prayer. In the prayer, there is religion or believing and trusting. As St. John the Baptist taught us the art of prayer, a person who knows how to communicate with God and communicates with God in the right way will become like an angel from that moment on. No matter how noble or slave or ordinary or lowly or even a king a person is,  this is how the soul is freed from the shackles of the flesh, this is how the conscience is elevated, this is how our abode crosses to heaven, this is how a person despises worldly conduct, this is how one stands before the throne. Through a proper way of Prayer. For God does not look at the beauty of speech or the eloquence of words, but the purity of the spirit. Even if we come with a broken and pure heart and faith, and say what comes to our mind, we will get reply. It is said that "Your heavenly Father knows what you need without asking."
 
After all, the main purpose of prayer is communion with God, so there is no ritual without prayer. In every liturgy there is prayer. It can be said that all the good deeds that people do are prayers. Fathers and scholars say that prostration, almsgiving, repentance, pursuing spiritual education, etc. are classified as prayer. Therefore, when we say that a person prayed, we understand that he begged, thanked, sang, promised, repented, and talked with God. It is inevitable that human beings will offer thanks and praise to the God whom they worship: saying feed me, protect me  from evil and suffering.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:1623 | date:2023-08-14T22:06:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

👉About Prayer (Part 2)

We have mentioned that prayer is a special spiritual tool to connect with God. For this to happen, our relationship with God must be continuous and constant. We should adhere to God's commandments and observe fasts in religion and morals. This is why we are commanded to "pray without ceasing" (1 Thessalonians 5:17, Colossians 4:2, Luke 18:1, 21:36, Romans 12:12).

As mentioned in the holy preface of the Gospel and preserved for us in tradition by the Father, before Satan misled Eve, he tried to tempt our father Adam. But when he approached Adam, he found him engrossed in prayer and could not deceive him. Later, when Satan approached Eve at six o'clock in the afternoon, he found her idle and used that vulnerability to deceive her. Therefore, Satan, our arch-enemy, does not rest even for a moment from tempting and misleading us by exploiting our weaknesses. That is why we should not separate from prayer to be able to resist him. As Jesus Christ said, "Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest you enter into temptation" (Luke 22:46).

In the spiritual teachings of our church, prayer is a continuous ritual of worship. "Pray without ceasing, give thanks in all things, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you" (1 Thessalonians 5:17-18). Jesus Christ also taught the apostles that we can cast out demons through fasting and prayer (Matthew 16:20). Satan, who knows this very well, tempts us to stay away from prayer by making us lazy and distracting us. Once he has us in his grasp, he makes us forget to pray when we become comfortable with him. Therefore, as our Lord told us, we should all wake up and pray constantly.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1624 | date:2023-08-15T22:06:06 ---
👉🏾 How to help our #family members who are not strong in their #faith

👉🏾 Question፦ How do I convince my brothers  to get married and go to church  they dont think it is a big deal..... they both have partners and children 

👉 Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, your brothers, having been baptized into the faith, have been sealed with the promise of salvation. Yet, as you have rightly observed, they have wandered, like sheep without a shepherd, into the wilderness of the secular world, away from the embrace of the Church and the nourishing Word of God.

It is a lamentable sight, indeed, to witness those who have been initiated into the mysteries of our faith living outside the protective walls of the Church, especially when they are entrusted with the sacred duty of raising children. For in the words of our Lord, "Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these."

How then, dear member, do we guide these souls back to the fold? It is a task that weighs heavily upon the hearts of all who serve the Church, and it is a reflection of the trials and tribulations that the Body of Christ faces in these times.

To guide them back, we must first approach them with love, humility, and patience. Remember the parable of the prodigal son. The father did not chastise or rebuke his wayward child but waited with open arms for his return. Similarly, you must be that beacon of hope and love for your brothers, showing them the beauty and depth of our faith through your own life and actions.

Engage them in gentle conversation, not with the intent to rebuke, but to understand. Find out what has distanced them from the Church and address those concerns with compassion. Invite them to partake in the life of the Church, not just in the liturgical services but in its charitable works, its community, and its teachings.

Moreover, pray fervently for their return. The power of prayer is immeasurable, and the intercessions of the saints can work wonders in the hearts of those who have strayed.

Lastly, trust in the divine providence of our Lord. He, who seeks out every lost sheep, will not abandon your brothers. In His time and in His way, He will draw them back to Himself. You may also call us at our phone number (512) 537-1651 for further guidance. 

Let us all, as members of the one, holy, catholic, and apostolic Church, take up this sacred duty of guiding our brethren back to the fold. Share this counsel with your family and community, for in unity, our efforts will bear fruit.

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God the Father, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you and your brothers. And may the prayers of all the saints intercede for us. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1625 | date:2023-08-16T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1626 | date:2023-08-16T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1627 | date:2023-08-16T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1628 | date:2023-08-16T22:02:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Prayer (Part 4)

How, what, and in what way should we pray?

Dear and respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual service conveyed on John's Repentance website, it should be recalled that in the previous series of lessons on the subject, we have tried to explain that prayer is the secret to our relationship with the Creator, and that prayer is our greatest tool and power to save us from the temptations of the flesh and the soul. Today, in part four, we will convey a short message about the ritual of prayer: 1st/ how we should stand for prayer, 2nd/ what we should pray, 3rd/ how we should pray. But in the beginning, when we prepare for prayer, we begin by remembering the spiritual perspective that helps us understand the mystery of true prayer.

The mystery of true prayer is the unity and trinity of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, based on faith in the mystery of the Trinity and the mystery of our incarnation, and taking into account all of God's love and saving work and future hope. The true mystery of prayer, following the mystery of the new covenant, looks to the east; He attends the heavenly prayer. Thinking of the heavenly army who prostrate before the heavenly throne and say "Holy Holy Holy" without ceasing, we should also give thanks to the Holy Church in front of the sanctuary of the Holy Church, which is the image of the heavenly throne. (Revelation 4) Thinking of Christ, the Savior of the world, who was born in the city of David to save us, we praise him with the angels, saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." (Luke 2:11-14).

1/ How we should pray

1.1. When we pray, we should stand in fear, respect, and love of God, and renew our lives first through repentance. Because a person must put the fear of God first in his faith. Next, he must sanctify his body and his whole life in a life of repentance in order to thank God in prayer or to ask for what he wants. "The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge." (Prov 1:7) Praying in this approach prolongs our life and brings many blessings.

Because prayer is talking to God, a person who stands for prayer should realize that he is standing in front of God no matter where he is. The army of heaven, the innocent, holy, mighty angels, are trembling and steadfast in holiness, and they always praise God by saying "Holy, Holy, Holy." He is the Creator and Ruler, the Almighty Elshadai, Adonai God. When His power is revealed, the heavens and the earth cannot stand before it, the earth will shake, and the heavens will shake. When His name was called, the Red Sea stood like a wall and overcame the people. When the people of Israel raised their voices and blew their trumpets, the walls of Jericho collapsed. When the Three Holy Children called the name of God, fire became water for them, and Daniel called His name and shut the mouths of the lions. Therefore, when we stand in front of this mighty God and invoke the holy name above all names, we should approach with fear and trembling. God is everywhere, and He is near and not far to those who call Him with proper prayer. "Am I only a God nearby," declares the LORD, "and not a God far away? Can anyone hide in secret places so that I cannot see him?" declares the LORD. "Do not I fill heaven and earth?" (Jer 23:23). Calling his name in vain, however, would be a violation of the law that says, "Do not take God's name in vain."
 
1.2. When we pray, we should pray standing straight.  Our clothing should also be clean and modest and not revealing our bidy. Women should cover their hair. In prayer, when we invoke the name of God, the God who created heaven and earth, the God who rules all creatures, who is the eternal king, above all else, we should bow down to Him with our bodies. When we stand before God the king, we must stand up and pray because he deserves honor.

(continues)👇

--- id:1629 | date:2023-08-16T22:03:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

👉 About Prayer (Part 4)

The Seven Times of Prayer (Daily)

(Note: The times written below are in Ethiopian time)

Morning Prayer (Eleven o'clock prayer)
This is the hour when Adam disobeyed God's command; the time when Adam and Eve ate the fruit from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and were exiled from Eden. Later, it was the hour when our Lord stood in front of Pilate and was rebuked to make amends for Adam. "In the morning, Lord, you hear my voice; in the morning, I lay my requests before you and wait expectantly." (Psalm 5:3)

Prayer Three (Three Hour Prayer)
This hour: Adam returned to Paradise after 5500 years of exile. Also, it is the time when our Lady heard the angel Gabriel and conceived the Lord. And the time when the Lord was brought before Pilate and flogged; and it is the time when the Holy Spirit descended on the apostles. "At noon, darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon. And at three in the afternoon Jesus cried out in a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” (which means “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”)" (Mark 15:33-34)

Midday Prayer (Six Hours Prayer)
This is the hour when our Lord drank bitter bile while He was hanged on the cross in Calvary Square; and it was a time when they stripped him of his clothes. "When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. This garment was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. 'Let's not tear it,' they said to one another. 'Let's decide by lot who will get it.' This happened that the scripture might be fulfilled that said, 'They divided my clothes among them and cast lots for my garment.' So this is what the soldiers did." (John 19:23-24)

Afternoon prayer (Nine o'clock prayer)
This is the hour when he separated his holy soul from his glorious body by his own authority and spoke seven words while on the cross. "And at nine o'clock Jesus cried out in a loud voice, 'Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?' (which means 'My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?')." (Mark 15:34)

Evening prayer (Eleven o'clock prayer)
This hour: It is the time when our Lord's body was taken down from the cross and placed in a tomb. "As evening approached, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who had himself become a disciple of Jesus. Going to Pilate, he asked for Jesus' body, and Pilate ordered that it be given to him. Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock." (Matthew 27:57-60)

Bedtime prayer
This is the hour when our Lord taught prayer to the apostles. Also, it is the time when Judas led the Jews to arrest Jesus. (Luke 11:1-4, Matthew 26:47-50)

Midnight prayer
This is the hour when our Lord was born, rose to defeat death, and will come to destroy the world. "At midnight the cry rang out: 'Here's the bridegroom! Come out to meet him!'" (Matthew 25:6)

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1633 | date:2023-08-17T22:00:03 ---


--- id:1634 | date:2023-08-17T22:00:03 ---


--- id:1635 | date:2023-08-17T22:00:03 ---


--- id:1636 | date:2023-08-17T22:00:03 ---


--- id:1637 | date:2023-08-17T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾 About the feast of the #Transfiguration 

👉 Question፦ Why does God call Moses and Elijah apart from the prophets for his transfiguration on Mt. Tabor?

Answer፦ Indeed, the event on Mount Tabor, the Transfiguration of our Lord Jesus Christ, is one replete with divine mysteries and profound theological insights. The very essence of this event speaks volumes about the nature of Christ and His mission on Earth. Yet, the presence of Moses and Elijah alongside Christ is no mere happenstance. It carries with it a theological weight that must be understood in the light of both the Old and New Testaments.

Let us begin with Moses and Elijah: two towering figures in the narrative of God’s relationship with humanity. Moses, the lawgiver, conversed with the Almighty and brought forth the Ten Commandments from Sinai. His presence on Mount Tabor is an affirmation that Jesus is the fulfillment of the Law. In the book of Exodus, Moses, yearning to see the full glory of God, was told, “You cannot see my face, for no one can see me and live” (Exodus 33:20). Yet, on Mount Tabor, Moses stands beside the Incarnate God, witnessing His transfigured glory—a testament to the promises of God being fulfilled.

Elijah, on the other hand, represents the prophets. This fiery prophet, who was taken up into heaven in a whirlwind, represents the prophetic tradition that pointed towards the coming of the Messiah. His presence confirms Jesus as the long-awaited Messiah, the fulfillment of the prophetic utterances.

The presence of both Moses and Elijah beside Jesus serves as an irrefutable testimony to the Jews. They encompass the entirety of the Old Testament – the Law and the Prophets. Their presence proclaims that Jesus is neither a mere prophet nor just another wise teacher. He is the Messiah, the fulfillment of all that was promised.

Saint Peter’s exclamation, “Lord, it is good for us to be here,” is a testament to the profound realization of the divine mystery unfolding before them. The mountain, in its elevated state, is reminiscent of the Church, lifting us closer to the heavens and the divine. To reside in such a place, to dwell with God, is indeed the highest of all desires, echoing the sentiments of Prophet David in his psalm.

Moreover, when the masses stumbled at the teachings of Jesus, the apostles remained, for they recognized in Him the words of eternal life. The Transfiguration reaffirmed this belief, showing them a glimpse of the divine glory of Jesus, strengthening their faith in the face of impending trials.

To be in the presence of God, to witness His majesty and glory, is indeed the highest of all blessings. The Transfiguration serves as a beacon, a luminous event that calls us to recognize the true nature of Christ and to anchor our faith in Him. For in Him, the Law and the Prophets find their fulfillment, and in His light, we find our true purpose and calling.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1639 | date:2023-08-18T22:01:58 ---


--- id:1640 | date:2023-08-18T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Luminous Feast of the #Transfiguration

The Sacred Mount Tabor

Mount Tabor stands not merely as a testament to the earth's grandeur but as a beacon of a divine mystery, central to our faith and salvation. The psalmist, in his infinite wisdom, once proclaimed, "Tabor and Hermon rejoice in His name" (Ps 88:12). A mountain is not merely a landform; it's a testament to the heights of God's glory and the depths of His wisdom.

Historical Significance of Tabor

Nestled a mere 10 km from the Sea of Galilee, Mount Tabor has long been a site of spiritual significance. Its historical importance is evident from ancient battles to prophecies, with heroes like Barak finding victory at its base and King Saul receiving divine prophecies upon its heights. The Scriptures, in their divine wisdom, hold Mount Tabor in high regard, associating it with the tribes and the mysteries of God.

The Light of Transfiguration

Yet, among all events, the Transfiguration stands out as the pinnacle of Mount Tabor's significance. Here, our beloved Savior, Jesus Christ, ascended with Peter, John, and James, revealing His divine nature in a burst of celestial light, demonstrating both His humanity and divinity. Such a profound event was hinted centuries before by the Holy Prophet David, who foresaw the mystery that would unfold on this sacred mountain.

Reasons for the Selection of the Three Disciples

1. Peter's Faith and Faltering: Peter, the rock upon which Christ would build His church, once rebuked the Lord, failing to understand the divine plan. On Tabor, he was shown the ineffable glory of Christ, solidifying his faith.
  
2. John and James' Misunderstanding: These two believed in an earthly kingdom. Ascending Tabor, they were shown the heavenly nature of Christ's dominion.

3. The Exclusion of Judas: The betrayer was left below, perhaps as a mercy, so he would not bear the weight of witnessing such glory and then committing his impending treachery.

Mountains: Where Heaven Meets Earth

Mountains, in their towering majesty, have always been places of divine revelation. From Abraham's test on Moriah to Moses' communion with the Almighty on Sinai, mountains serve as gateways to the divine. The Savior Himself, in His earthly ministry, often retreated to mountains to teach, pray, and reveal divine truths. Tabor was the culmination of these mountainous revelations.

The Revelation to the Disciples

As the divine light enveloped Christ, Moses and Elijah appeared beside Him. Moses, who once yearned to see God's face, now stood beside the incarnate Lord. Elijah, taken to heaven in a fiery chariot, returned to bear witness to Christ's divinity. Their presence refuted the claims of those who saw Jesus as merely another prophet. He was, and is, the Son of God.

Peter's Exclamation

Peter's exclamation, "Lord, it is good for us to be here," resonates with all who yearn for the divine. Like the psalmist who yearned to dwell in God's house, we too long for such moments of divine clarity and proximity.

The Feast and Modern Celebrations

In commemoration of this divine event, the Orthodox Tewahedo Church celebrates annually with profound reverence. The dazzling light of Tabor reminds us of the luminous nature of Christ. Traditions like Buhe, with its emphasis on light, echo the radiance of that day. However, it's crucial that we remember the spiritual significance and not be led astray by mere ritual or secular distractions.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1641 | date:2023-08-18T22:06:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

Concluding Reflection

The Transfiguration is not merely a historical event; it is a profound theological statement about Christ's nature and a promise of the glory we too can partake in. As we reflect upon this divine mystery, let us aspire to transform our lives, to radiate the love and light of Christ, and to ascend our own spiritual mountains to meet God.

May the grace of the Transfigured Christ enlighten our paths and lead us to the eternal glory of His kingdom. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1646 | date:2023-08-20T21:30:28 ---


--- id:1647 | date:2023-08-20T21:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #patience, #pride and #greed 

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you a lesson on patience pride and greed so that you may learn about these major topics in our Church and apply the learnings in your life, especially during this fasting season. 

I. Impatience
The virtue of patience is a glowing ember in the heart that illumines the dark path of impatience. Impatience is indeed a root of evil that finds its nourishment in the soil of haste and instability. As the lesson vividly illustrates, it was through impatience that our first parents, Adam and Eve, were led astray by the serpent's whispers.

To the pious soul, patience is a fortress that shields against the storms of earthly desires and passions. It is not merely the absence of haste but a manifestation of divine wisdom, as revealed in Christ's own example. His silence before the shearers, His endurance upon the Cross, reflects the profound depth of His patience, a virtue that mortifies death itself. For as it is written, "A sin planted in haste is rooted out by patience."

II. Pride
Pride, or arrogance, is a festering wound in the soul, the original sin that cast Lucifer from the heavenly realms. It is a declaration of self-sufficiency, a refusal to acknowledge our true state of dependence upon the Almighty God.

In Christ, we find the antidote to pride: humility and obedience. Christ's willing submission unto death, even death on the Cross, stands as a beacon of hope for our fallen nature. In Him, obedience becomes the key that unlocks the gate to eternal life, breaking the shackles of disobedience that bound humanity to death. Our call is to "imitate Christ by obeying," for "Man can bear the image of Christ only when he is obedient."

III. Greed
Greed, that insatiable lust for more, is an ailment that blinds the soul to the richness of God's grace. Like a parasite, it gnaws at contentment, leaving behind a void filled only with emptiness and longing.

Christ's response to greed is a lesson in generosity. The Son of Man, who did not cling to what was His, emptied Himself, giving even His very life for the salvation of humanity. In His example, we find the grace to conquer the vice of greed. "Death, which entered greedily, came out generously," and we are called to walk in the footsteps of our Savior, learning to be not greedy, but generous.

Conclusion
In our struggle against the evils of Impatience, Pride, and Greed, let us take up the armor of the virtues of Patience, Humility, and Generosity, as manifested in the life of Christ. These virtues are not mere abstractions but the very lifeblood of our salvation. They are a path trodden by the saints, guided by the wisdom of the Fathers, and made possible through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.

By walking this path, we engage in a daily struggle to cleanse our souls from the stains of worldly passions. We turn our gaze toward Heaven and discover, in the silence of the heart, the gentle whisper of the Holy Spirit calling us to a life of righteousness and peace.

May this lesson be a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path, that we may "run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith" (Hebrews 12:1-2), and thus enter into the joy of our Lord. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1648 | date:2023-08-21T22:02:07 ---


--- id:1649 | date:2023-08-21T22:02:07 ---


--- id:1650 | date:2023-08-21T22:02:07 ---


--- id:1651 | date:2023-08-21T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Divine #Ascension of the Virgin #Mary

Dearest members of John's Repentance spiritual service, as we gather today, the 22nd day of August, our hearts are filled with awe and reverence. We celebrate the divine ascent of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Theotokos – the Mother of God.

In the time period between August 6tht and 22nd, the Orthodox Church sanctifies these days to remember the ascent of the Virgin Mary, who bore the Light of the World, our Lord Jesus Christ.

Delve deep into the sacred scriptures and prophetic utterances, and one finds cryptic references to the resurrection and ascension of the Blessed Virgin. Remember the words of the wise King Solomon, whose poetry sang of love and beauty: "Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away; for now the winter is past, the rain is over and gone. Flowers appear on the earth; the season of singing has come" (Song of Solomon 2:10-14). 

These words, though veiled in mystique, allude to the Virgin Mary's sufferings symbolized by "winter and rain". The blossoming flowers represent the apostles, who sat, learned, and drank from the fountain of Christ's wisdom, and thereafter spread the Gospel to the world's ends. Just as winter makes way for spring, so too did the Virgin’s earthly tribulations pave the way for her glorious ascension.

David, the psalmist king, proclaimed in spiritual ecstasy, "Arise, O Lord, into thy resting place: thou and the ark, which thou hast sanctified" (Psalm 131:8). This, dear brethren, is an allegorical allusion to the Virgin, the Ark of the New Covenant. She, who was pure in body, soul, and heart, was destined to ascend and find rest in the divine sanctum of Christ's Kingdom.

The Holy Fathers, particularly those who uphold the traditions of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, have interpreted another psalm as, "At Your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir" (Psalm 45:9). Herein lies the affirmation that the "Queen of Heaven, the Virgin Mary, stands resplendent in her purity beside her Son in the heavenly realm.

Saint Ephraim the Syrian and the blessed Ethiopian teacher, Saint Yared, have spoken at length about her divine journey. Saint Yared has sung, “The Virgin Mary, ascended from earth to heaven; And there she took her place with her son, at the right hand of the Father and the Holy Spirit.” Saint Ephraim extolled, "O Virgin, full of grace, you are exalted above all saints. You are the intercessor for our souls, the beacon of our faith."

Regarding the apostle Thomas, the "Doubting Thomas", there exists a poignant tale. Upon the Virgin Mary's dormition, when her sacred body was lifted to the heavens, it was Thomas who beheld her ascent. When he met the other apostles, they told him of her burial, and in disbelief, he wished to see her tomb. But upon its opening, it was found empty, save for her shroud. Thus, even in her ascension, the Virgin Mary granted faith to the one who doubted.

In conclusion, beloved seekers of divine wisdom, though volumes could be written about the wonders and miracles of the Blessed Virgin, it is essential to remember the purpose of these tales and teachings. Let us honor her, not just on her feast days, but daily, asking for her intercessions and blessings. For in celebrating her, we find a path closer to Christ. And in understanding her journey, we find solace and hope in our own spiritual voyage.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1654 | date:2023-08-23T22:00:48 ---


--- id:1655 | date:2023-08-23T22:00:48 ---


--- id:1656 | date:2023-08-23T22:00:48 ---


--- id:1657 | date:2023-08-23T22:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the sacrement of the #Eucharist  

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about the sacrement of the Eucharist so that you read, understand and participate in this foundational mystery of the Church.

👉 Institution of the Sacrament

Our Lord instituted this Sacrament on Covenant Thursday, just a few hours before His arrest and trial. After He had washed the feet of the disciples as a sign of their repentance and preparation, “He took bread, blessed it and broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, ‘Take, eat; this is My body.’ Then He took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, ‘Drink from it all of you. For this is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins’” (Mt 26:26-28) St. Paul said, “The Lord Jesus on the same night in which He was betrayed took bread; and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, ‘Take, eat; this is My body which is broken for you; do this in remembrance of Me.’ In the same manner He also took the cup after supper, saying, ‘This cup is the new covenant in My blood. This do, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me.’ For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death till He comes” (1 Cor 11:23-26)

👉 Symbols of the Eucharist in the Old Testament

The offering of Melchizedek (bread & wine) was a symbol of this Holy Sacrament, “Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine; he was the priest of God Most High” (Gen 14:18). This is the first verse in Holy Scripture where the word “priest” was used and it is interesting to notice the connection between the priesthood of Melchizedek and the offering of bread and wine. Therefore, it was said about our Lord, “You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek” (Ps 110:4; Heb 5:6)

The Passover lamb that the children of Israel offered on the night of their exodus from Egypt, and which they used to offer every year thereafter was a symbol of this Sacrament “For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us” (1 Cor 5:7)

The manna that the children of Israel ate in the wilderness of Sinai for forty years was a symbol of the Sacrament of Eucharist. Our Lord said, “This is the bread which came down from heaven – not as your fathers ate the manna, and are dead. He who eats this bread will live forever” (Jn 6:58) – “I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever and the bread that I shall give is My flesh” (Jn 6:51)

👉 The Question of the Real Presence

Our Lord spoke about this Sacrament openly to the Jews but they “quarreled among themselves saying, ‘How can this Man give us His flesh to eat?’” (Jn 6:52).

Moreover, many of the disciples protested saying, “This is a hard saying; who can understand it?” (Jn 6:60). When Lord Jesus explicitly emphasized His real presence in the Sacrament, it was written, “many of His disciples went back and walked with Him no more” (Jn 6:66)

The question of the real presence is of considerable importance in relation to the differences, which have emerged within Christianity since the time of the so-called ‘Reformation’. A particularly important witness to the early Christian understanding of this Sacrament is provided by the ‘Catechetical lectures’ of St. Cyril of Jerusalem. This series of 24 lectures of instruction on the beliefs and practices of the Christian Church, given at some point around 350 AD to those preparing for baptism, are an important witness to the ideas that prevailed in the Jerusalem Church around this point. It is clear that St. Cyril regarded the bread and wine as becoming the real body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ:

Continued 👇

--- id:1658 | date:2023-08-23T22:36:01 ---
Continued 👆

“[Jesus Christ], by his own will, once changed water into wine at Cana of Galilee. So why should we not believe that he can change wine into blood? … We should therefore have full assurance that we are sharing in the body and blood of Christ. For in the type of bread, his body is given to you, and in the type of wine, his blood is given to you, so that by partaking of the body and blood of Christ you may become of one body and one blood with Him.” (St. Cyril of Jerusalem)

St. John of Damascus wrote the following about the question of how this transformation of the bread and wine takes place:

“And now you ask how the bread becomes the body of Christ, and the wine and the water become the blood of Christ. I shall tell you. The Holy Spirit comes upon them, and achieves things which surpass every word and thought … Let it be enough for you to understand that this takes place by the Holy Spirit” (St. John of Damascus).

👉 Benefits of the Sacrament

Abiding in Lord Jesus Christ: “He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him” (Jn 6:56). Consequently we bear the fruits of the spirit, “He who abides in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit; for without Me you can do nothing” (Jn 15:5)

Obtaining Eternal Life: “Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day… He who eats this bread will live forever” (Jn 6:54,58)

Growth & Maintenance of Our Spiritual Life: “Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you… For My flesh is food indeed, and My blood is drink indeed… he who feeds on Me will live because of Me” (Jn 6:53,55,57)

Salvation & Remission of Sins: “This is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins” (Mt 26:28)

Unification of Believers: “For we, being many, are one bread and one body; for we all partake of that one bread” (1 Cor 10:17)

👉 Consequences of Unworthy Communion

St. Paul said, “Whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning (recognizing clearly) the Lord’s body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep (die). For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged.” (1 Cor 11:27-31)

Continued 👇

--- id:1659 | date:2023-08-23T22:39:01 ---
👉 The Meaning of Worthiness

Orthodox Faith: The person who approaches the Eucharist must be an Orthodox Christian having no doubt concerning the bread & wine being the true body and precious blood of Lord Jesus Christ.

Repentance & Confession: The person must be practicing the Sacrament of Repentance and Confession on regular basis as St. Paul said, “let a man examine himself” (1 Cor 11:28)

Reconciliation With Others: Lord Jesus Christ said, “If you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar, and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come offer your gift” (Mt 5:23-24)

True Worthiness is Feeling Unworthy: St. Paul, the meek and humble apostle said, “I know nothing against myself, yet I am not justified by this” (1 Cor 4:4)

Obeying The Church Rules: concerning food abstinence before communion, physical cleanliness, and early attendance of the liturgy.

👉 The Eucharist as a Sacrifice

The Orthodox Church believes and confesses that the Eucharist is a sacrifice and an offering to God in addition to being a Sacrament. The following supports this belief:

The words of Lord Jesus Christ Himself, “This is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many” (Mt 26:28; Mk 14:24) – “This cup is the new covenant in My blood, which is shed for you” (Lk 22:20) – “This is My body which is broken for you” (1 Cor 11:24) – “This is My body which is given for you” (Lk 22:19). Undoubtedly, the terms “broken body” and “shed blood” refer to a sacrifice.

The presence of an altar in the Church confirms that the Eucharist is a sacrifice. St. Paul said, “We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle (Jews) have no right to eat” (Heb 13:10). Isaiah the Prophet said, “In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt” (Is 19:19), this is a specific prophecy about the Coptic (Egyptian) Church which proves the presence of altars in the Christian era and consequently the presence of a sacrifice (the Eucharist).

Malachi the Prophet prophesied about the New Testament offering saying, “I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, nor will I accept an offering from your hands. For from the rising of the sun even to its going down, My name shall be great among the Gentiles; In every place incense shall be offered to My name, and a pure offering; For My name shall be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts” (Mal 1:10-11). This “pure offering” is nothing but the Eucharistic offering that Christians offer on their altars, for at which point in history did the Gentiles “in every place” offer an offering to the Lord?

St. Paul said, “Observe Israel after the flesh: Are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? What am I saying then? That an idol is anything, or what is offered to idol is anything (else)? Rather, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice they sacrifice to demons and not to God, and I do not want you to have fellowship with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the Lord’s table and the table of demons” (1 Cor 10:18-21). The apostle is comparing the table (altar) of the Lord to the altar of the pagans upon which unacceptable demonic sacrifices were offered, which proves that the Eucharist that is offered on the Christian altar is indeed a sacrifice.

Source: ‘The Church Sacraments’ by Archdeacon Habib Guirgess.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1662 | date:2023-08-24T22:00:24 ---


--- id:1663 | date:2023-08-24T22:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; As mentioned in the title, we have sent you the following important lesson about the monthly commemoration of the Archangel Gabriel, which is celebrated today, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

St. Gabriel is the 2nd ranked angel power after St. Michael among the 7 archangels. He is described in the scriptures equally as the Archangel Michael in his intercession and mediation. Gabriel means servant and messenger of God. He is given this mysterious name because it is often revealed in the form of a human being and conveys God's message or God's will to mankind. In the place where the angels were created, when God, who created them, disappeared from their eyes in an instant to ensure the stability of their religion. Then question arose in the society of angels: 'Who created us?', 'Where did we come from?'  At this time, the father of destruction, the devil, boldly and defiantly said, "I have created you." But the angel Saint Gabriel calmed down the association of countless holy angels by saying that we should stand firm where we are. Because of this, as it is written on John 1:14, 'The Word became flesh', he was chosen to announce to the Virgin that the Son of God  will come down from heaven and be born as a man from the Virgin Mary. The angel Gabriel said to the her, "Behold, you will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will call his name Jesus. He is great. He will be called the Son of the Most High (Luke 1:31). Now that we have learned something about the Archangel, we will proceed with today's feast. 

This is the miracle he performed on December 28th (annual commemoration day) : Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael (Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego) from the furnace fire. If you ask how this happened, when they were living in captivity in Persian Babylon, King Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel the fourth and placed them in the palace to learn wisdom from Babylon. Meldar, their steward, offered them meat and wine in goblets. They said, "We will not eat this. Give us some grain and good water." He said to them, "If the king sees your weight loss, he will be angry." They said give us a date. He gave them 10 days. They ate grains and drank water, and they were more handsome and bright than those who ate meat and drank wine. While they were learning, the Lord revealed his wisdom to them and they became wise, especially Daniel who enterpreted the king's vision. Then because of this, the king appointed them in three states. But the Babylonians were jealous of this and thought of a reason to quarrel with the king. They said to the king, make a picture of yourself so you can distinguish between your friend and your enemy. He made a gold statue 60 cubits high and 6 cubits wide and placed it in the field of Aduran and proclaimed that those who do not bow to it will be punished. When everybody bowed down, they  (Ananya, Azariah, and Mishael) said, "We will not bow down." And the Babylonians went and told the king. The king then ordered they be brought before him for questioning. He asked them 'Do you say that we should not worship?' They said yes. 'Who will save you?' They said to him "the God that created us will save us." He kindled a fire, and the flame became 49 cubits.

After this, he selected the mighty ones and threw the three into the fire. The soldiers who pushed them to fire were burned but  for the three (Ananya, Azariah, Misael) the angel Gabriel came down and touched the fire with his rod, it turned into water. When the Babylonians saw that the fire was extinguished, they added more fire to it and activated the burn. But they (Ananya, Azariah, Mishael) spent the night singing praises to God without being burned.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:1664 | date:2023-08-24T22:06:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

(continued part)👆👇

In the morning, when Nebuchadnezzar looked from his balcony, he saw four of them walking in the fire. Yesterday we tied three men and threw them out of the fiery furnace, but today I see four of them released  and walking in the fire. And immediately he went out of the oven and said to them, come out. They ran out. Not even an ash was found on their clothes. Nebuchadnezzar saw this and said, "Praise be to God, the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who sent his angel and saved the poor." 'King, do you think it's true? It was because of their magic' said the Babylonians. And the king said 'If by magic, save yourselves by your magic for there is none greater than you, and then added the Babylonians to the fire and burned them.

And the king returned the decree with a decree saying that there is no one who can save except the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. (Dan chapter 3)

👉🏾 In addition to the above, here are some of the main works of intercession and mediation that the angel Saint Gabriel is known for, which he performed by the grace given to him from the Creator:-

👉 1st/ He told the prophet Daniel in a vision about what was going to happen. 15:16)

👉 2. Also, in the vision that the prophet Daniel saw again, he said this about the angel, "While I was still praying, the angel I had seen in the vision before, Gabriel, came flying... He taught me and told me... Daniel, I have come now to give you wisdom and understanding" (Dan 9: 21-23)

👉 3rd / Saint Gabriel is the angel who saved Daniel from the lion's mouth.

👉 4th /  Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael from the furnace fire. 

👉 5th/ He announced to the priest Zacharias and Saint Elizabeth that they would give birth to John the Baptist in their old age.

👉 6. He announced to the Virgin Mary that the physical word Jesus Christ, who is the cure of the world, would be born from the her.

👉 7th/ He saved  St. Jeletan and the child Kirkos from a boiling fire in an iron tank. 

👉 8th/ He led the wise men to the city of Bethlehem where the Lord was born, leading them with the sign of a star.

👉 9th/ Old Joseph was told in a dream to take his mother and baby and flee to Egypt.

👉 10/ In addition, Saint Gabriel announced the conception of Samson; He brought forth water for Agar in the desert. He who interpreted the mystery to Daniel; He is an angel appointed over serpents and scorpions.

In general, we find this angel's intercession and guardianship in many readings of the holy books; God has helped us to write to you on the occasion of the monthly holiday that we celebrate today, March 28th, so that we may all receive the intercession and blessings of the angel Saint Gabriel. 

Therefore, if the Lord God had not sent his angels to protect us night and morning, day and night, on the road, when we sleep at home and when we get up, Satan's army would have prevent us from having life in this world and the next .

God's prophet, Saint David, said, "No calamity will enter your house. He will raise up angels for you to guard you on your way. They will lift you up with their hands so that your feet will not stumble over a stone..." Telling us about the guardianship and protection of angels.

In another paragraph, he said, "God's angel will live around those who fear him, and will save them." He said that angels will save people who believe in the guardianship and intercession of angels, and that they will save us from physical and spiritual suffering. (Ps 33:7, 90/91:10')

Since angels are appointed to have authority over all creatures, the prophet Enoch told us about the power of intercessor and guardianship of Saint Gabriel saying that he is one of the noble angels appointed over the serpents, the righteous in heaven, and the cherubim. (Enoch 6:7)

May the prayers and supplications of this great angel of light rest upon us

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1666 | date:2023-08-25T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1667 | date:2023-08-25T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1668 | date:2023-08-25T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On #Faith and #Works

The Sacred Bond of Faith and Works

In the golden words of our Apostle James: "Faith without works is dead" (James 2:20). This is a profound testament to the Orthodox belief: faith, although essential, is but one side of the coin, the other being righteous deeds. Just as the body yearns for the soul to be complete, faith seeks works to find its true meaning.

God’s Revelation and the Moral Imperative

God's revelation to mankind has always been a beacon of hope and guidance. When humanity was submerged in ignorance, it was the innate moral compass, bestowed upon us by the Divine, which signaled the presence of a higher reality. As the Apostle Paul remarks, even those unfamiliar with the law of God demonstrate its truths in their actions (Romans 2:14-15). This moral foundation acts as a testament to God’s omnipresence, guiding each soul towards righteousness.

A Misunderstanding Corrected

There exists a prevalent misconception: "Believe, and salvation is yours." While faith is crucial, devoid of virtuous actions, it resembles a barren tree. This is the very sentiment Saint James conveys when he challenges the hollow proclamation of faith without deeds. Furthermore, echoing the insights of St. John Chrysostom, Archbishop of Constantinople, a Christian life absent of virtuous conduct is as foundationless as a building suspended in air.

The Lord’s Call for Perfect Works

Our Savior, in His boundless wisdom, presents Himself as the model of humility and love, beckoning us: “Take my yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart” (Matthew 11:29). His teachings repeatedly emphasize the amalgamation of faith and action. In His parables and sermons, Christ elucidates that belief is actualized through charity, love, and service.

Being the Salt of the Earth

As Christ's followers, we are reminded of our distinctive role in the world: “You are the salt of the earth” (Matthew 5:13). Our faith, if true and unwavering, must infuse the world with virtue and righteousness. It is not enough to resist temptation; we must actively pursue goodness, embodying the Gospel in every deed.

Demons Believe, But Do Not Act

A belief without righteousness is empty, and this truth is exemplified when demons recognize Christ's divinity. As it is written, even the unclean spirits knew Him and trembled before His majesty (Mark 3:11; Mark 5:5-8). Yet, this recognition did not translate to righteous deeds or salvation. Thus, mere belief, even if rooted in profound truths, is insufficient for salvation.

The Present World and Our Moral Duty

Our world today, marred by conflict and division, yearns for the light of Christ’s teachings. Faith and works, in harmonious unison, can offer solace and healing. As the Psalmist aptly declares, “Depart from evil and do good; seek peace and pursue it” (Psalm 34:14).

In conclusion, beloved in Christ, while faith plants the seed of salvation, it is through our works that this seed sprouts and blossoms. Let us, therefore, ardently strive to ensure that our faith is not merely a proclamation but a living testament reflected in our every deed.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1671 | date:2023-08-27T22:42:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the #Creation and Fall of #Humanity

Dearly beloved in Christ, mankind is not just another creature in the great tapestry of existence, but the masterpiece of the Divine Artist.

Imagine, if you will, an artist meticulously crafting a sculpture. Unlike the other pieces, this one is created not just with tools but with the artist’s own breath, infusing life into it. So did God sculpt man from the earth, and with His breath, imparted the soul. It is this divine origin, this sacred connection, that sets humanity apart from the rest of creation.

Man is neither angel nor beast. Though he possesses a soul, he is not an angel; for he is made of the earth, tangible and temporal. While he has a body, he is not mere animal; for he is endowed with intellect and will. Angels may soar in the heavens, but they lack the corporeal experience of humanity. Beasts may roam the earth, but they lack the intellectual and moral capacities of humanity.

Adam, the first man, enjoyed divine intimacy in Eden, a connection unblemished by sin. Recognizing man's need for companionship, God created Eve, not from the dust as He did with Adam, but from Adam's very side, signifying the deep union and shared source of all humanity. Their union, both profound and divine, represents the unity of all humankind.

Yet, with this great honor comes great responsibility. Man, with his free will, is capable of choosing righteousness or iniquity, life or death. In Eden, tempted by the serpent, humanity's forebearers chose to transgress God’s commandment. This act, a clear exercise of their free will, had consequences not just for them, but for all their descendants.

The Apostle Paul underscores this, noting that through one man's disobedience, sin entered the world, bringing with it death and separation from God. This ancestral sin, this original failing, has been the inheritance of all mankind. The luminosity of the divine image became dimmed, though not utterly extinguished.

Yet, despair not! For the loving God, though justly aggrieved, did not forsake humanity. Throughout the ages, prophets foretold the coming of a Redeemer, the Word made flesh. And in the fullness of time, God's promise was fulfilled. The Son, one of the Holy Trinity, took on human form, being born of the Virgin Mary. Fully God and fully man, He came not to condemn, but to save.

This mystery, beloved, is profound. The divine Word, which was from the beginning, took on flesh and dwelt among us. And while theologians have grappled to express this, one thing remains clear: In Christ's incarnation, divinity and humanity met without mixing, preserving the distinctiveness of each nature.

This union, so beautifully exemplified in the person of Christ, reflects our own call to unity with God. Though the human nature in Christ experienced the struggles and sufferings of life, including death itself, the divine nature remained untouched by these. Similarly, we, while experiencing the frailties of our humanity, are called to partake in the divine.

The incarnate Christ represents hope for all of humanity. He demonstrates that while we may fall, we are not forsaken. By His life, death, and resurrection, He has paved a path for our return to Eden, to that intimate communion with God.

Let us then, with humility and hope, strive to reflect the divine image within us. Let us embrace the grace offered by Christ, seek repentance, and yearn for that eternal communion with our Creator.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always

May God's mother, the virgin, and the cross remain glorious, Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1672 | date:2023-08-28T23:00:05 ---


--- id:1673 | date:2023-08-28T23:00:05 ---


--- id:1674 | date:2023-08-28T23:00:05 ---


--- id:1675 | date:2023-08-28T23:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #George 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, today is the monthly feast of St. George in the EOTC and so we send you this short writing for you to learn about the life of this great saint and martyr. As you read to partake from the blessing of the day, think about how you can incorporate your learnings to your personal life. 

St. George is a Christian saint who is widely known for his courage, steadfast faith, and unwavering devotion to God. He was born in 280 A.D. in the city of Capadocia, which was part of the Eastern Empire in Asia Minor. He came from a wealthy and noble Christian family and followed the usual career path of young nobleman by joining the Roman army.

St. George's ability and charm quickly brought him promotion within the army, and eventually, he was made a tribune or an officer in the Imperial Guard by the Emperor. According to one story, he was a friend of Constantine, another officer who later became the first Christian emperor. The legend says that St. George accompanied Constantine to Britain and visited some holy places, including Glastonbury and Caerleon. When he returned to Nicomedia, the capital of the Eastern Empire, he encountered the fierce storm of persecution against Christians.

Diocletian, the emperor at the time, issued a formal edict against Christians on February 23, 303 A.D., which was the feast of Termhlalia. The edict mandated that all churches should be leveled to the ground, all sacred books burned, all Christians who held any honorable rank were to be degraded and deprived of civil rights, and all Christians who were not officials were to be reduced to slavery.

Despite the persecution, St. George boldly stood up for his faith. He pushed his way through the market to read the proclamation in front of the awe-stricken crowd and then deliberately tore down the Imperial edict and threw it away. This act of defiance resulted in his arrest and subsequent encounter with Diocletian.

The Emperor tried to seduce St. George by promising him a higher position in the empire, but St. George remained steadfast in his faith. Diocletian then began to threaten him with unbearable tortures that he would inflict on him. St. George refused to renounce his faith, even in the face of torture, and eventually was imprisoned.

St. George's chastity and suffering are two prominent aspects of his story. Diocletian arranged for a very beautiful woman to spend the night with him in prison to try to debauch him. St. George, who could only look forward to heavenly joy, began to pray and within a short while managed to swing her heart to the Christian faith. She seriously began to inquire about salvation, and by morning she declared that she found her true Bridegroom, Jesus Christ. With great courage, she announced her Christianity to the Emperor and his men and joined the other saintly martyrs.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1676 | date:2023-08-28T23:06:02 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

As for his suffering, the tortures that were applied to St. George are too numerous to mention in depth, but it is worth noting his utmost love for Christ. His body was torn by a special instrument that had metallic teeth, and our Lord Jesus rose him after his death, leading to the conversion of many pagans. He was put in active lime, and water was poured on it. Again the Lord returned him back to life. The Emperor became very agitated, imagining that the Saint was using magic. He called his top magician, Athanasius, and requested him to prepare a lethal poison to kill St. George.
The Saint signed over the cup with the sign of the cross before drinking it, and of course, no harm came to him. The Emperor's counselors informed him that St. George's magic was, in fact, contained in the sign of the Cross itself. Another cup was also given to the Saint, but this time with his hands tied behind his back. The Saint signed it by his head, saying: "shall I drink it from here or here or here or here!!!"

As St. George stood before the emperor and his court, he was given one last chance to renounce his Christian faith and offer sacrifice to the idols. The emperor promised him great rewards, honors, and privileges if he would do so. But St. George refused, declaring that he would never deny his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

In a final act of defiance, the emperor ordered St. George to be beheaded. The saint willingly accepted his fate and went to his death with courage and grace. He is said to have uttered a prayer to God, thanking Him for the privilege of dying for the faith.

After his martyrdom, St. George's reputation as a courageous and holy man quickly spread throughout the Christian world. Churches were built in his honor, and his feast day was celebrated on April 23rd. He became known as the patron saint of soldiers, knights, and all who defend the faith.

Today, the legend of St. George and the dragon is still celebrated in many cultures around the world. It has become a symbol of strength, courage, and the triumph of good over evil. The story of St. George reminds us that even in the face of persecution and adversity, we can remain steadfast in our faith and trust in God's love and mercy.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1678 | date:2023-08-29T22:31:07 ---
👉🏾 On #Baptism and the Holy #Eucharist

Question፦ I wanted to ask, if we're adopted into the body of Christ during baptism, how are we still of the body if the members of Christ don't sin, but we as human sin? Is it because of God's mercy we are still considered members, making it a mystery?
And why do we take Holy Communion multiple times in our life? What separated the remission of sin in the Eucharist from that of baptism? Does it have any connection to healing the sick members of Christs' body (aka sinful humans)

Dear seeker of truth, your question has been asked by many throughout the ages. It's a testament to the profound mystery of our faith, a faith that both challenges and embraces the intellect.

In our faith, baptism is a divine sacrament, a sacred beginning where one is initiated into the fold of Christ. Through this rite, a soul becomes part of Christ, not in a figurative sense alone, but in a profound, mystical union. This individual, regardless of their age of initiation, be it the fortieth or the eightieth day of their life, is thereby grafted onto Christ. Like a branch attached to a divine vine, they draw life and purpose from Him.

Thus, when we proclaim ourselves as Christians, we declare our membership in Christ. We become part of His divine body, co-heirs to His kingdom, and participants in the divine mysteries. Each Christian is like a part of a body, with Christ as the head. We, the many, are brought into unity through Him, a unity that is signified and sealed in the sacrament of baptism.

Yet, as you rightly note, the reality of human sin stands in stark contrast to this divine ideal. But remember, while sin may mar our relationship with God, it doesn't sever our divine adoption granted at baptism. St. John reminds us that the children of God are distinguished from the children of the devil by their actions. When we sin, our transgressions do not arise from God but from our own fallen nature.

Despite our transgressions, God's mercy remains boundless. Only a full denial of God, a total renunciation of our baptismal vows, would sever this bond of divine adoption. But for the myriad smaller sins, the daily failings and moral missteps, God in His infinite wisdom provides another sacrament: the Eucharist.

As we journey through life, we face both blessings and trials. Just as our bodies need sustenance to face the challenges of the world, our souls too need nourishment. The Eucharist is our spiritual sustenance. Through it, we are not only reminded of Christ's sacrifice but are mystically unified with Him, renewing our strength and grace.

In the same way that we might seek medicine or therapy for bodily ailments, the Eucharist acts as a divine medicine for our souls. The life of penance, prayers, and the Cross serve to heal our spiritual wounds, but the Eucharist uniquely fortifies us against the onslaughts of the enemy. For we are constantly in a spiritual battle, as St. Paul reminds us, our fight is not against flesh and blood but against spiritual forces.

In conclusion, dear seeker, understand that both baptism and the Eucharist are divine mysteries, means by which God pours His grace upon us. While baptism incorporates us into the body of Christ, the Eucharist nourishes and sustains us on our journey. In our moments of doubt or confusion, let us turn inward and seek the counsel of the Church and her Fathers. For in their wisdom and guidance, we may find the path to eternal life.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1680 | date:2023-08-30T23:30:35 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 📣

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, our mission continues to grow, and as we look forward to further strengthening our services, we humbly request your involvement and support. Please reach out to us if you're interested in this opportunity. (@yohannesneseha)

We believe that with increased manpower, our reach can be extended even further, ensuring that our offerings are accessible to the global community. The areas in which we currently need assistance are as follows:

1) Question and Answer Support for Amharic page: We require help in managing previously answered questions. Instead of burdening our spiritual leaders with repeating responses, we need individuals who can provide links to past answers and share the knowledge responsibly, only commenting when they are certain of the correct response.

2) Translation: As we aim to make our resources available to a broader audience, we are seeking volunteers who can translate text lessons from Amharic to English for our English version of John's Repentance website.

4) Moderation for Amharic page: To maintain the sanctity of our community, we need moderators who can manage inappropriate messages, advertisements, links, and phone numbers posted on our page. If such posts appear, writing a polite correction or contacting the admin for removal will be necessary.

5) YouTube videos for Amharic page: We need assistance on uploading videos to YouTube 

6) Outreach: We need your help on sharing our service to many more people.  

7) Social media management: We need assistance managing our social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. This is much easier than it sounds. It's usually a copy paste. 

In essence, your support would contribute to enhancing our services, helping our spiritual leaders, and saving the time of all families who use the John's Repentance website.

Please note, this volunteer opportunity can be fulfilled using your mobile phone and can be carried out at a time that suits your schedule. This is an unpaid, voluntary service offering, filled with the opportunity for spiritual blessings.

We thank you in advance for your generous cooperation and encourage you to reach out to us if you're willing to be a part of this spiritual mission. Your contribution will be greatly appreciated, and we are excited about the potential to work together in the service of God and our community.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1683 | date:2023-09-01T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1684 | date:2023-09-01T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1685 | date:2023-09-01T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Tekle_Haymanot 

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you a lesson on St. Tekle Haymanot, who's monthly feast we celebrated 3 days ago so that you may better understand his story and use it as an inspiration to shape yours. 

Venerated Pillar of Apostolic Faith

Just as a well-nurtured tree yields bounteous fruit, so too is the true faith enriched and passed down by holy servants of the Lord. Consider the chronicles of Saint Tekle Haymanot, the radiant beacon of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.

Born to the world on December 27, 1214 AD, his entry into this realm had been divinely announced the prior year, on March 27, 1214 AD. Originally christened "Fiseha Zion," he was reared under this name and in the devout shadow of his father, Tzaga Ze'ab. Young Fiseha Zion immersed himself in holy scriptures, the Bluyat and the Hadisat, manifesting an early zeal for divine matters. Legend recounts his prowess as a hunter, but in a profound epiphany, the heavens rent asunder, revealing our Savior Jesus Christ, borne on the wings of Archangel Michael, with a celestial chorus of angels in tow. Addressing the astounded youth, our Lord decreed, "Henceforth, you shall bear the name 'Planted Trinity,' and your hunt shall no longer be for game, but for souls. Fear not, for I am perpetually at your side." And then, as mysteriously as He had appeared, our Lord vanished into the heavenly expanse.

Armed with this divine mandate, Saint Tekle Haymanot distributed his earthly possessions among the needy and embarked on a divine mission, starting at Mnane. Ordained by the Pope, he began evangelizing with such enthusiasm that his very first sermon led ten thousand souls in the region of "Shwa Tsilalesh" to baptism. He then traversed vast tracts of Ethiopia, reclaiming lands and souls lost to foreign religions due to past onslaughts by Judith and Islamic influence. He unflinchingly faced down the heretical Marian sorcerers.

Apart from his evangelical conquests, Saint Tekle Haymanot was a cornerstone of monasticism in Ethiopia. His dedication saw him serve in three renowned monasteries: Abune Besilote Michael Monastery for twelve years, Abune Jesus Moa Zahaiq Monastery for seven years, and Debre Damo for another seven years alongside Abune Yohani. This sums up to an impressive twenty-six years. Post his monastic commitments, he retreated to Medreshwa (Zorre), where he spent twenty-two years in deep prayer, during which he famously planted six spears around him and prayed continuously for seven years.

His faith was not confined to Ethiopia. Spiritual encounters and blessings marked his pilgrimage to Jerusalem. At the sight of the sacred places, including Christ's crucifixion at Calvary, he wept bitterly. Legend speaks of a divine vision he received wherein he beheld the Holy Trinity in its unity and trinity and declared, "Glory to the Holy Trinity," before descending back to earth.

The miraculous exploits of Saint Tekle Haymanot are innumerable. He resurrected the dead, healed the ailing, exorcised demons, and performed wonders that transcended the earthly realm. He was a luminary, a beacon guiding many towards the light of Orthodoxy, and even founded Mount Lebanon Monastery, a unique abode where male and female monks coexisted in spiritual harmony. After a lifetime replete with tribulations and triumphs for the faith, he entered the heavenly abode at the age of ninety-nine, on August 25, 1314 AD.

May the blessings and intercession of our revered father, Saint Tekle Haymanot, always be our fortress and guide, amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1690 | date:2023-09-02T21:30:02 ---


--- id:1691 | date:2023-09-02T21:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Mystery of #Incarnation

Let us delve into the profound mystery of the incarnation, a cornerstone of our faith. In this divine revelation, we proclaim that the Word, one of the Holy Trinity, assumed perfect humanity to reveal His boundless love and redeem the world. He was born of the Holy Virgin Mary, fulfilling the prophecies of God's love for mankind, who found themselves ensnared in sin, burdened by their fallen nature, and oppressed under the dominion of demons. As the Apostle Paul declares, "But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of woman, born under the law" (Galatians 4:4).

The Word, the invisible Divinity by nature, became visible through the mystical incarnation. The intangible was grasped, the unbeatable was wounded, the immortal experienced death in the flesh, the one who knew no hunger or thirst became hungry and thirsty, and the one without need was satisfied. In this union, the flesh was infused with divinity, and the eternal Word became known as the firstborn, for it merged with the eternal Divinity. As it is written, "Behold, the man has become like one of us" (Genesis 3:22), and thus He was counted as the Son of God the Father and the Son of the Virgin Mary. The Son born of a Virgin is rightfully called the Son of God the Father. Hence, due to this inseparable unity, the Orthodox faith asserts the following teachings regarding the incarnation:

1. Without Change: When the Word becomes flesh, it does not undergo any alteration or modification. Just as the Scriptures affirm, "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever" (Hebrews 13:8). "With whom there is no variation or shadow due to change" (James 1:17). As the Lord Himself proclaims, "I am the Lord, I do not change" (Malachi 3:6).

2. Without Division: The Divinity did not abandon the body after accomplishing the salvation of the world. He did not separate Himself from the flesh, as confirmed in the words of the prophet Jeremiah, "Have I not preserved them in my dwelling?" (Jeremiah 17:16).

3. Without Confusion: The two natures, divine and human, are not blended into one another but exist in a perfect union. Therefore, when it is said that "this is my body," it signifies a complete and indivisible union without any mixture.

4. Without Separation: The divinity and the flesh remain distinct, without mixing or leaving their respective essences. The Word did not abandon His divinity, nor did the flesh cease to be flesh. Rather, the flesh was divinely glorified, and the Word became flesh, displaying a perfect union.

To summarize, the will of the Word, which cannot be violated or augmented, is the same as the will of the flesh. It is a union of two wills without confusion—a perfect harmony of wills. 

Furthermore, our mystical incarnation doctrine asserts that God was born in the flesh of the Virgin Mary, and she is rightly called the Theotokos, the Mother of God, for she gave birth to God in the flesh (Luke 1:35). As the devil, disguised as a serpent, separated mankind from God, the Lord chose a mysterious plan that rendered the crafty wisdom of the devil futile. The mystery through which He accomplished the salvation of the world surpasses the wisdom with which He created it. He chose a virgin and, from her flesh and soul, was born in a humble stable, crucified naked, and thus saved the world.

When we declare that God became man, it does not diminish or increase His divinity. As the Scriptures affirm, "Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever" (Hebrews 13:8). He remains the eternal Lord of all (Psalm 101:27).

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1692 | date:2023-09-02T21:36:02 ---
(Continued)

In His incarnation, Christ assumed our humanity to become the Redeemer of humankind, to raise the fallen, to seek the lost, and to serve as our perfect example. He came to reveal His immeasurable love, to redeem us from sin and death, and to restore us to life. The Son, born of the Virgin Mary, fasted, was baptized, preached the Gospel, and was crucified on Calvary, giving His life for our salvation. On the third day, He triumphed over death, and after forty days, He ascended into heaven. He will come again, bringing perfection and glory. When He returns, all those who pierced Him will behold His majesty.

The teachings of the Orthodox Tewahedo Church concerning the mystical incarnation elucidate our belief in the unity of the divine and human natures in Christ. Although some may label us as Monophysites, associating our Church with a belief in the mingling or absorption of the natures, our faith is not Monophysite in nature. Such assertions stem from misunderstandings and misinterpretations of the teachings of revered figures like Adeshke, who, despite his devoutness, deviated from the Orthodox understanding of the Trinity. Scholars often recount his teachings as examples of misguided monastic fervor rather than authoritative theological positions.

When the Orthodox Tewahedo Church proclaims "Tewahedo" (Oneness), it signifies the unity of the two natures without one destroying or consuming the other. The unity of their essence is not singular but composite. St. Cyril of Alexandria, a renowned Church Father, unveils the mystery of Christ's incarnation as the mystery of salvation, affirming that before Christ became man, He was God, and when He assumed humanity, He remained fully God.

In contemplating the mystery of the incarnation, we are humbled by the profound love and mercy of God. Through His voluntary self-emptying, the Word became flesh to dwell among us, revealing the path of salvation and offering us the opportunity for eternal communion with Him. Let us meditate on the incarnation, embracing its depth and significance, as we marvel at the infinite wisdom and grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1694 | date:2023-09-03T23:00:58 ---


--- id:1695 | date:2023-09-03T23:00:58 ---


--- id:1696 | date:2023-09-03T23:00:58 ---


--- id:1697 | date:2023-09-03T23:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Obstacles to #Repentance

 👉Question: My life has been polluted by sins and I wanted to repent. But I was very afraid of falling into the same sin again, so I thought before I repent, I should try to overcome the sin that challenges me. If I win, then I will repent and cleanse myself of the past. What do you advise me about this?

Answer: Among the ways of salvation that Satan fights against, there is no better than repentance, because repentance destroys all the edifices of sin that the enemy, the devil, has built to destroy the lives of Christians, making it not exist by God's grace. Because of this, he tries to prevent us from repentance, and even if we were to repent, he will never stop doing his best to prevent it from happening sooner than later. Among the obstacles to repentance that the enemy, the devil, uses to keep people in sin or prolong the time for repentance:

1. Creating obstacles: They can be sudden challenges or opportunities, but they disable us from repenting by creating obstacles.

2. To convince the sinner that he is better by comparing himself with those who have sinned more than him and that he does not need repentance, but holiness should not be compared to a sinful life.

3. Being guided by environmental influences due to the weakness of the flesh. Saint Paul said, "Do not be conformed to this world." Romans 12:2 A small fish swims in a stormy sea. A Christian should withstand such temptations and live a spiritual life.

4. Delay: The devil does not fight us directly to prevent us from repenting, but he delays us from repenting by suppressing various hidden temptations and reasons. One of the dangers of procrastination is changing the heart prepared for repentance and destroying the opportunity for repentance. If sin is not crushed immediately and continues, it will take root and become an addiction, and then it can destroy the regret and desire for repentance.

5. Despair:  Before we fall into sin, Satan makes us sin by thinking of God's goodness and forgiveness, and after we sin, he reminds us of God's judgment and cruelty and discourages us from repenting.

6. By making the repentant think that he is not a sinner, that he is justified by self-admiration.  A man cannot change what he thinks is good unless he believes that his own life is corrupted by sin. If there is no spiritual change in his life, he will not think about repentance. He does not repent, so he does not examine himself.

7. Not having a God-fearing heart: According to Saint Isaac, if there is no God-fearing, there is no repentance. Sometimes, some people take out "GOD-fearing" from their hearts in excuse of love. At this time, they become careless about their penitential life and fall into sin. Because of sin, they lose the love of God that leads them to repentance.

In general, it is not appropriate to live as a slave of sin or to fight without repenting but fighting with and winning the devil, falling and getting up in repentance. Joshua son of Sirak told his son that if he wanted to serve God, he should prepare himself for the challenges he would face. Satan is jealous of our spiritual work when it comes to our fasting and repentance. He fights to prevent us from accepting the value of our labor. He will prepare every trap so that we will fall. He tells us that you will not leave us until we surrender. But as St. Peter told us, "Your partner the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Knowing that your brothers in the world have received all that suffering, resist him steadfastly in faith (1 Peter 5:89), we should remember this advice and fight, not give up or run away in fear."

In the work that a person does, while controlling his body and humbly contributing the good, he is given the repentance which he discards the evil work day by day with. "Not even heaven is clean before God, let alone a man who drinks sin like water." Job 15:15.

(Continues)👇

--- id:1698 | date:2023-09-03T23:03:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

Since it is impossible for a person to be free from sin, repentance is done in the morning and in the evening if needed, but it is not delayed so we don't accumulate sin. The righteousness or sin that a person does every day is written in God's record. If we repent for our sin to our father of confession and wash it with tears of repentance, it will be destroyed. Today, we give the pitty excuse that we are ashamed to tell the priest, but we don't know when we will be taken away. We will be taken away suddenly and may hear the word " go away from me" on judgment day. Because if we die while we are in sin and not repenting, we will suffer in the after life. Therefore, we must realize that living in sin while being subject to sin is a shame for the soul.

In addition to this, not only will we lose the death of our soul by not repenting, but even when we live on earth, our fasting and prayers will not be fruitful without repentance. Fasting or any spiritual service is a practice period where we try to get closer to God. Sin pushes us out of this life. Therefore, in order to get closer to God, one should quickly remove sin through repentance. During fasting, just as the body is forbidden from food, the soul is also forbidden from all earthly and worldly desires. For this we return to God through repentance; And God will return to us. "Behold, the hand of God is not shortened from saving, nor his ear deaf from hearing, but your iniquity has separated between you and your God, and your sin has hidden his face from you." (Isa 59:1:2) Therefore, food served on a beautiful and polished table will make me happy, fasting and prayer done with repentance and a clean and polished body will bring reward. "Return to me and I will return to you" (Mal 3:7), God called his people to repentance through his prophets. 

 (continues) 👇

--- id:1699 | date:2023-09-03T23:06:02 ---
(Continued)👆

To sum up, to live in sin is death and slavery. Sin takes away from us peace, rest, tranquility, understanding. It also causes stress. It keeps us away from the grace and fruits of the Holy Spirit.  It makes us vulnerable to worldly thoughts, actions, and lust of the flesh. It takes away from God's sonship, from the protection of the Trinity, from life, from love, from the goodness and virtues of God. Sin will also take us to eternal death. There are ups and downs in the journey of life. The crutch that help us stand up again is repentance. Repentance is like being born again or being regenerated every time. Anyone who commits sins every now and then adds diseases to old age. The Christianity of a person who does not repent is useless and his sins will be many. A person who repents and frequently examines himself for his soul with his confession father is like a healthy and peaceful person because he always asks a doctor for help.

So our questioner, thinking about running away from repentance and fighting sin is like making a plan to widen the door for sin or extending the date for repentance, so we recommend that this is not appropriate. Instead, as our Lord Jesus Christ told us, "if your burden is heavy, come to me", because he called us to help us from our burden, we must repent and fight to be freed from sin by taking down our burden continuously. God is our power to be able to do what we think we cannot do. It is said to draw near to God and he will draw near to you (Jas 4:8).  Thus, we should have our hopes in the faithful GOD and listen to his calling for our repentance. His unwavering words say "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble" (James 4:6), so that no one falls into the grave of sin that he commits regularly and does not fall away from being the child of God, and that GOD's grace that is constantly given to him is not lacking, everyone should have a life of repentance. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:1701 | date:2023-09-04T22:01:25 ---


--- id:1702 | date:2023-09-04T22:01:25 ---


--- id:1703 | date:2023-09-04T22:01:25 ---


--- id:1704 | date:2023-09-04T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson on the Birth of St. #John the Baptist

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today is the monthly feast of Saint John the Baptist. Let us delve into the depth of his life and draw valuable lessons for our spiritual journey.

In the pages of Holy Scripture, the Gospel according to St. Matthew recounts the extraordinary events surrounding the birth and ministry of St. John. As St. Matthew writes, in those days, the voice of St. John the Baptist resounded through the wilderness of Judea, proclaiming with urgency, "The kingdom of heaven is near, repent!" (Matthew 3:2). Such was the resolute conviction with which he preached, invoking the words of the prophet Isaiah, "Prepare the way of the Lord" (Isaiah 40:3).

Now, dear members, let us reflect upon the essence of St. John's message. In the New Testament, it is God Himself who, in His infinite mercy, offers true forgiveness of sins. It is He who beckons us to prepare our hearts for this divine forgiveness, directing us to the true Father who possesses the power to absolve all transgressions. St. John, in his ministry, baptized with water for repentance, inviting people to a life of genuine contrition. However, he proclaimed, "But the one who comes after me will baptize you with the Holy Spirit" (Matthew 3:11). He revealed that the Messiah, our Lord Jesus Christ, would restore humanity to the status of God's beloved children, emancipating them from sin's grip.

In the depth of his wisdom, St. John acknowledged his own unworthiness to even bear the shoes of the One who was to come. He declared, "He who comes after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire" (Matthew 3:11). St. John recognized his role as the humble precursor to the One who would effect a profound transformation in the lives of believers. With an evocative metaphor, he compared the Lord to a winnower who would thoroughly cleanse the threshing floor, gathering the wheat into the barn while burning the chaff with unquenchable fire (Matthew 3:12).

Therefore, dear members, let us take heed of St. John's exhortation. Those who stubbornly persist in rebellion and continue in sin, disregarding the counsel, reproof, and truth proclaimed to them, shall face judgment. St. John, the forerunner, exemplified a life of penitence even before the Lord's earthly manifestation. He was born to our father Zacharias and our mother Saint Elizabeth, with the archangel Gabriel foretelling his birth and his divine calling. From his mother's womb, he was destined to live a life of exceptional holiness, preparing the way for the Lord and proclaiming a genuine sermon of repentance. He abstained from worldly pleasures, not even tasting the flavor of meat or wine, choosing instead to sustain himself with a diet of locusts and desert honey.

Furthermore, dear members, contemplate the unique position held by St. John the Baptist. Even before his birth, while he was still in his mother's womb, he received divine revelation concerning the approach of the Virgin Mary, the mother of our Lord. As the blessed Mary entered the presence of St. Elizabeth, the unborn John, filled with the Holy Spirit, leaped for joy, acknowledging the sacredness of the encounter. In awe, St. Elizabeth exclaimed, "How is it that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" (Luke 1:43). Thus, we witness the extraordinary moment when the first apostle, St. John, bearing witness from his mother's womb, testified to the divine nature of Christ. Truly, he was a martyr even before his birth.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1705 | date:2023-09-04T22:06:02 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

On this festive occasion, as we celebrate the birth of St. John the Baptist, let us embrace the profound lessons embedded in his life. Let us draw from the wellspring of his unwavering faith, his fervent proclamation of repentance, and his humble surrender before the Messiah. In our journey towards God's kingdom, let us awaken from the slumber of sin and strive for true repentance, guided by the message of St. John the Baptist.

Therefore, dear members, let us remember that our website, bearing the name of St. John the Baptist, is rooted in the purpose of his repentance sermon. It is through this lens that we seek to share the message of repentance, offering guidance and support to all who yearn to draw closer to God's kingdom. May the life and ministry of St. John inspire us to pursue genuine contrition, transforming our hearts and leading us to the path of eternal salvation.

May the prayers of St. John the Baptist, the greatest born of women, accompany us in our spiritual endeavors, and may his radiant example continue to guide us towards the eternal kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1710 | date:2023-09-06T23:30:04 ---
👉🏾 About #blood #donation and use of #contraceptives 

👉 Question፦ Bless me my father and peace from Kenya... please enlighten me on the our church's view on the use of contraceptives and blood donation

Answer፦ Blessings to you, child of God from the radiant lands of Kenya!

The Orthodox Church, while rooted deeply in the traditions of the early Church, recognizes the complexities of modern life. In matters of conscience and personal ethics, the wisdom of the Church Fathers and Holy Scriptures guides us.

Concerning contraceptives: The Orthodox Church holds that the primary purpose of marriage is the union of two souls and the potential for the procreation of children. The use of contraceptives is not universally accepted. While some local churches may permit the use of non-abortive contraceptives within marriage for specific reasons, always it is with the understanding that it is not to be used for mere convenience or to live a life free from children. As Saint John Chrysostom wrote, “To reject children in marriage, to avoid the blessing of fertility is to diminish the greatness of God’s gift." Therefore, it's crucial to approach this matter with prayer, spiritual reflection, and counsel from a spiritual father.

Regarding blood donation: The act of giving one's blood, the very essence of life, to save another is a beautiful representation of Christ's sacrificial love. The Scriptures remind us, “Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.” (John 15:13). By donating blood, we share in this life-giving act and embrace our call to love our neighbors.

In both matters, dear seeker, it's essential to ground your decisions in prayer and seek guidance from a spiritual father or guide within the Orthodox tradition.

Might I ask:  Do you have a spiritual father that can give you more personalized guidance on these matters?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1711 | date:2023-09-08T22:00:34 ---


--- id:1712 | date:2023-09-08T22:00:34 ---


--- id:1713 | date:2023-09-08T22:00:34 ---


--- id:1714 | date:2023-09-08T22:02:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Sacred Mystery of the Holy #Eucharist

1. The Essence of the Sacrament

The Holy Eucharist stands as the most sublime of Mysteries, instituted by our Saviour, Jesus Christ. In this sacred act, He bequeathed to His followers not mere bread and wine but His very body and blood, proclaiming, "Take, eat, this is my body...Drink, this is my blood."

Through fervent prayer and the divine word, the offerings of bread and wine, presented by the priest, are transmuted. They are no longer the simple sustenance of mankind, but the very body and blood of our Lord. This transformation, deep and ineffable, grants the faithful not only spiritual nourishment but the promise of salvation and eternal life.

Although to the earthly senses it remains as bread and wine, through divine consecration, it is elevated to the true body of Christ, that very body offered upon the Cross, and the authentic blood of Christ, shed for the redemption of humanity. Such a profound change is termed a mystery, for it transcends human comprehension.

2. The Necessity of Partaking

It was Christ Himself, our Great High Priest, who offered this sacrificial meal to His Father. Hence, it is imperative for all who profess Christ to partake in His flesh and drink of His blood. Apart from this sacred unity, spiritual life wanes. Echoing the Lord's teachings, "I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever: and the bread that I will give is my flesh" (John 6:51). Furthermore, "Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day" (John 6:54).

3. The Universal Call

Every soul that has embraced Christ, irrespective of age or gender, is called to this divine feast. By these means, believers are not only united with Christ but also amongst themselves. Through partaking of His body and blood, we are indelibly marked as His own.

4. Frequency of Communion

The Eucharistic Mystery, by its very nature, demands frequent reverence. Each believer is called to receive it regularly – weekly ideally, monthly without fail, and at a bare minimum, thrice a year. As the priest offers the Eucharist, he testifies of its sanctity and perfection, and the congregant's echoing "Amen" affirms this divine truth.

It is of utmost importance that when a believer approaches the chalice, they consume both the body and the blood, for Christ did not separate them in His teachings but offered them as one (John 6:56).

5. The Order of Reception

In the liturgical dance of the Eucharist, there exists a divine order: first the Bishops, then the Priests, followed by the Deacons, and lastly the Laity. Among the laity, tradition holds that men partake before women. This is not a declaration of value but a testament to ancient eclesiastical discipline.

6. The Preparation for the Feast

The Holy Eucharist demands a soul prepared and pure. Those who approach the sacred chalice must be clad in the robes of fasting. In the tradition of the Ethiopian Church, this often signifies fasting before the Holy Mass. If partaking in a morning service, one should fast from the previous evening. Moreover, the believer should approach with a contrite heart, having repented and confessed their sins, thus standing clean before the Lord.

In Closing

Let us, therefore, approach this great Mystery with reverence and awe, recognizing the immense gift Christ has bestowed upon us. For in the Holy Eucharist, we are united with Him, partaking in His divine nature, and journeying on the path to eternal salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1716 | date:2023-09-09T23:00:38 ---
👉🏾 About #anger issues 

Question፦ Do you have any suggestions for someone struggling with anger issues?

Answer፦ Dear seeker of peace, 

In the luminous words of the Holy Apostle James, "Let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath" (James 1:19). My beloved, anger is an age-old ailment of the soul, one that not only ancient desert fathers grappled with, but also many in our fast-paced modern age. For the heart inflamed with anger is like a turbulent sea, never finding its rest.

Firstly, immerse yourself in regular prayer and fasting. As the Holy Father St. John Cassian once said, "Anger is the first passion to be born of our attachment to pleasures and is the first to die when we cut off such attachment." By fasting and prayer, we weaken the passions and fortify our soul.

Secondly, the practice of stillness (hesychasm) can be a balm to an agitated soul. Taking moments in your day to sit in quiet reflection, focusing on the Jesus Prayer ("Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner"), can redirect the energies of your heart towards the Divine and away from the passions.

Lastly, seek the guidance of a spiritual father/partner. In the Orthodox tradition, we believe in the power of confession and spiritual guidance. Through the sacrament of confession, one can obtain not just forgiveness, but also direction and healing. We can assign you a spiritual friend who can guide and support you walkbthe right path. Which state do you live in? 

How often do you find moments of silence in your day? What are the triggers that provoke your anger, and how might you address them in light of Christ's love and patience? 

Walk in the footsteps of Christ, who endured all things with patience and humility, and let His peace be your guiding star. 🙏🏼

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1720 | date:2023-09-11T23:10:01 ---


--- id:1721 | date:2023-09-11T23:10:01 ---


--- id:1722 | date:2023-09-11T23:11:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A Treatise on the Ethiopian New Year: A Time of Renewal

Introduction

In the light of the Divine Grace, as we stand at the brink of a new year, as passed down in the traditions of our venerable Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, we should embrace this moment not merely as a chronological transition but as an opportunity for profound spiritual reflection and renewal. Our ancestors, deeply entrenched in their unwavering faith, recognized the profound significance of this occasion and linked it with the teachings of the herald of Christ, St. John the Baptist.

The Evolving Seasons and Their Evangelical Significance

Each year, in the rich tapestry of our Orthodox tradition, is symbolically ascribed to one of the four evangelists: St. Matthew, St. Mark, St. Luke, and St. John. As we transition from one year to the next, we particularly honor St. John. Why? Because St. John the Baptist's profound role in the salvation narrative was that of a bridge, uniting the Old Testament prophets with the apostolic witness of the New Testament. He cried out in the wilderness, preparing the way for our Lord, signaling the dawn of a new spiritual age. Such is the symbolism inherent in our celebration of the New Year.

The Sacred Time of September

September, marking the advent of our New Year, holds immense significance both in our religious tradition and the natural world. On the cosmic scale, September is the month when day and night stand in perfect equilibrium, with both claiming 12 hours. This harmony in nature reflects the balance that God intends for our lives.

Moreover, this month resonates with the ancient story of Noah, for it was during September that the great waters receded, revealing the earth once more. This restoration of the earth serves as a vivid reminder of the spiritual renewal that the New Year offers to each of us.

The Historical Foundations of Our Tradition

1. The tale of Noah's division of the world among his sons elucidates the significance of September. Legend tells that Ham, upon entering Africa, first stepped onto Ethiopian soil during this month, proclaiming jubilantly, "A gem has come out for me."
 
2. The journey of our illustrious Queen Saba to meet King Solomon also culminated in September. The meeting of these two luminaries was not merely a merging of minds but symbolized a merging of traditions and the sharing of divine wisdom.

3. In the Ethiopian countryside, September heralds a season of bloom and bounty. The landscapes burst into a mosaic of colors, reminiscent of radiant pearls, leading our forefathers to christen September as the "Pearl Extractor."

Reflection and the Quest for Renewal

Beloved in Christ, let us not err in ascribing inherent good or evil to time itself. Time, in its essence, is neutral. It is our actions, choices, and inclinations that cast a shadow or light upon the age. As the apostle Saint Paul profoundly exhorts, we ought to "redeem the time."

The previous year witnessed tumultuous events, challenges, and losses. Yet, as we stand at the threshold of a new year, we are presented with a pristine canvas. Let it be painted not with the shades of animosity or division, but with hues of love, peace, righteousness, and unity.

Conclusion

In the embrace of our Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, let the New Year not merely denote a change in date but signal a heartfelt spiritual renewal. For anyone reading this, let this year herald a renaissance of faith, love, and unity.

May the Divine Grace shower upon us all, guiding and guarding our steps throughout this year and always. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1724 | date:2023-09-14T00:00:21 ---
👉🏾 About the #missing_years of Christ 

Question፦ I came across a text that claims to be a scroll of the missing 18 years of Jesus life when he traveled to teach in India, Africa, and Europe. 
Does any of the 81 books of the Ethiopian Bible confirms this?

Answer፦ Dearest seeker of the truth,

Blessings to you on your spiritual journey. The quest for understanding the life of our Lord Jesus Christ is a noble endeavor, for it brings us closer to His divine teachings.

In the realm of Orthodoxy, both Eastern and Oriental, the canonized Scriptures do not speak of these "missing 18 years", which is from age 12 to 30, in such a manner. The Ethiopian Bible, consisting of 81 books, does not contain explicit accounts of Christ traveling to India, Africa, or Europe during these years. We hold dear to the teachings and traditions that have been passed down to us, believing in the providence and guidance of the Holy Spirit in preserving the essential truths of Christ's life.

St. John of Damascus once said, "The whole earth is a living icon of the face of God." Instead of being drawn to extracanonical tales, may I suggest diving deeply into the rich tradition and teachings of the Orthodox Church, where the living presence of Christ and the wisdom of the Holy Fathers will guide you in understanding His true nature and mission?

Now, my dear child in Christ, what step will you take next to delve deeper into the mysteries of our faith?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1727 | date:2023-09-14T23:00:36 ---


--- id:1728 | date:2023-09-14T23:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Holiness of #Saints

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, we send you this lesson on the holiness of Saints so that you may be able to read, understand and apply to your own lives. Hence we entrust you to use this for yourself and to share it with your friends. 

God's Chosen Vessels: God, in His infinite wisdom, beckons to Himself those souls He holds dear, the chosen ones. It is written in Mark 3:13, “Have I not chosen you?”, and further in Acts 17, "I have chosen you to bear my name". These are not mere mortals, but luminous beings, chosen by the Creator to propagate His holy will and purpose in this realm. Their sanctity originates from God Himself (Romans 8:28). By virtue of their devout deeds, unwavering faith, and sacred lives, God has invited them to be His instruments. We, therefore, venerate them as God has chosen to honor them.

The Triumph of Saints: Every saint, amidst adversity, has clung to the sacred path. As James 1:12 proclaims, “Blessed is he who perseveres under trial”. They have withstood persecution, starvation, and more, only to radiate God's glory in their ultimate sacrifice. Their reward isn't the fleeting pleasures of this realm but the eternal joy of the Kingdom of Heaven. The saints remind us that, “He that doeth the will of God liveth for ever” (Philippians 4:13).

The Light of the World: The Saints, through their spiritual odyssey, have become akin to celestial bodies, echoing the words of Christ, "You are the light of the world". More than mere miracle-workers, they are torchbearers of faith and serve as beacons to guide our own spiritual journeys.

The Role of Saints in our Lives: In the annals of Christianity, the Saints are our protectors and aides. God dispatched Moses to part the seas and Saint Michael to shield us from harm. And just as Gabriel assisted the prophet Daniel, the Saints, too, assist us in our earthly sojourns. They are also our intercessors, praying for our souls and seeking God's mercy on our behalf.

The Divinity Bestowed: Though mortals, the saints, by grace, are elevated. “I have made you a god over Pharaoh” (Exodus 7:11) is a testament to the divine roles saints can assume, not by their own nature but through God's benevolence.

Honoring the Holy Ones: Our Holy Church reveres the saints - the angels, prophets, apostles, martyrs, and the righteous. Chief among them is the Holy Virgin Mary, pure in spirit and body, the divine vessel who bore our Savior. As Orthodox Christians, we do not just revere their teachings but also the places where they have prayed, the vestments they wore, and every relic associated with them. This is because they are infused with divine energy, and their lives are a testament to their spiritual battles against the forces of darkness.

The Eternal Remembrance: The Church stands as a testament to their greatness. Their feasts are celebrated, their histories preserved, and their messages preached, echoing the truth of the Heavenly Father, manifested through Christ in their lives.

In conclusion, dear faithful, as we walk the path of spirituality, let us always seek the guidance and blessings of these holy souls. They, who have transcended earthly bounds and now reside with the Father, intercede for us, guiding and guarding us in our journey. Let our hearts always remain open to their teachings and our souls ever yearning for the divine grace they so abundantly shower upon us.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1732 | date:2023-09-16T22:30:33 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Overcoming #Lust: An Extended #Lesson

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you different lessons from different stories about how to overcome the temptation of lust. Hence we entrust you to read it and use it in your daily lives. 

1. A man held captive by lust wrestles with a ravenous flame in his heart, a fire that burns unceasingly. In his struggle against this humiliating proposition, he stumbles upon the power of prayer and fasting. As he adopts these practices, the once irresistible flame begins to ebb, its light diminishes, and his heart is relieved. Through fasting and prayer, he refocuses his energy away from his carnal desires and towards his spiritual growth.

2. Another individual, burdened by lust, seeks counsel from an elder. His transparency with the elder lifts the weight of his struggle, replacing it with encouragement and support. The elder advises him, “Fear not, yield not, but whenever the spirit combats you, remember the sanctity of the body and its higher purpose." By illuminating the sin, it loses power, and the individual regains control over his desires. It's essential to remember that opening up about our struggles lessens their burden and can allow for spiritual guidance and support.

3. As another elder suggests, imagine a passerby who catches a whiff of a tantalizing meal being prepared. If the scent is alluring and he accepts its pull, he will go inside and partake. If not, he continues his journey unencumbered. It's the same with temptation—do not let its enticing aroma draw you in. Rather, respond with the prayer, "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, help me."

4. A man besieged by the lure of lust turns to a holy man for assistance. Through fervent prayers, the holy man begs God for understanding about the source of the individual's struggle. The revelation received highlights the man's active submission to his desires rather than seeking divine help. He was advised to resist and fight against the temptation. Prayer and guidance help him regain his footing and he continues his journey, ever watchful.

5. Two brothers plagued by lust abandon their monastic lives for the pleasures of the world. However, they soon realize the emptiness of their actions, the looming dread of divine judgment, and decide to return to their monastic duties. They seek forgiveness, performing acts of penance, gradually releasing the grips of their earthly desires. Their transformation serves as a testament to the transformative power of repentance.

6. A brother, troubled by lustful temptations, receives an offer of divine intervention from an elder. However, he realizes that his struggle is refining his spirit, and so asks for strength instead of removal. This request enlightens the elder to a new understanding of struggle and spiritual growth.

7. Another brother is tormented by the image of a beautiful woman. The image is so overpowering that he finds himself engulfed in a fierce battle. He exposes himself to the reality of mortal decay, which helps him resist the tempting vision. Understanding the transient nature of physical beauty aids him in his fight against lust.

8. A son struggles against lustful desires and considers renouncing his monastic life. His father sends him to live in the desert for forty days, during which the true repulsive nature of lust is revealed. This experience strengthens his resolve to lead a spiritual life.

9. A monk beseeches an elder for advice on managing lustful thoughts. The elder advises him to contemplate death and eternal punishment—bitter truths that act like a powerful antidote to earthly temptations. The fearful consideration of these realities can help quiet the allure of lustful desires.

10. A brother endures forty days of intense battle against the spirit of lust, appearing in the form of a beautiful woman. His perseverance is recognized by God, who liberates him from the clutch of this temptation. His struggle highlights the value of persistence in spiritual battles.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1733 | date:2023-09-16T22:33:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

11. Father Cyrus of Alexandria warns: "If lustful thoughts are left unchecked, they can lead to lustful actions." Lustful thoughts are the seeds from which sinful actions grow, and to prevent this, they must be actively confronted and resisted.

12. A brother considers leaving monastic life due to the strain of resisting lust. An elder advises him to endure patiently, as patience and perseverance in struggle can reap spiritual rewards. Mutual support can help individuals overcome their struggles.

13. A hermit, revered for his saintly life, falls into the trap of lust, revealing that even the seemingly holy can fall. He is filled with regret and sorrow for his actions. Instead of succumbing to despair, he spends a year in penance and prayer. His story is a reminder that no one is beyond the reach of temptation, and that true repentance and divine mercy are the means of restoration.

While the struggle against lust may be arduous, these stories underline the power of prayer, penance, and spiritual guidance in overcoming it. Each story imparts a valuable lesson in the ongoing battle against lustful desires and highlights the transformative power of faith and repentance. Armed with these lessons, one can navigate through the stormy seas of temptation, guided by the beacon of divine grace and mercy.


May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1735 | date:2023-09-17T22:30:40 ---


--- id:1736 | date:2023-09-17T22:31:01 ---


--- id:1737 | date:2023-09-17T22:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Trinity 

Beloved members of John's Repentance service, today (Technically yesterday) is the monthly feast the Holy Trinity. Hence we send you this writing so you may read and partake form the Trinity's blessings. 

The Holy Trinity - a profound mystery, one that confounds the human mind and yet, stands as a beacon of divine revelation. The Trinity, the triune God, is a singular essence manifested in three persons - the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. This, however, should not be confined within the human concept of numbers. The unity is not merely numerical, but a unity of divine essence, an unity of character. The three, then, surpasses the boundaries of numerics to suggest a unique trinity, a unique interconnectedness and interdependence.

God is beyond the comprehension of human mind, beyond the law of numbers. Thus, it is imperative that God Himself reveals the mystery of the Holy Trinity to His creation. The grand revelation - the incarnation of God - stands as a testament to this mystery. It is through the Son of God, Christ, becoming flesh that the eternal Fatherhood and Sonship become recognizable. It is during the baptism of Christ by John the Baptist that the world comes to acknowledge Christ as the eternal Son of God the Father.

The teachings of Christ post His baptism unraveled the divine nature of God the Father. These teachings, in combination with the moral life led by Christ, exhibited the coequality of the Holy Spirit with the Father and the Son. This divine revelation, in the body of Christ, was then passed on to the church, His body on earth. Christ informed us about God the Father, and the church, in her liturgical prayers, affirms this revelation.

The Holy Spirit, a purifying and glorifying life, is the life of the Father and the Son. He is the God who lives within the Father and the Son. During the baptism of Christ, He descended in the form of a dove, teaching us to be baptized in the Holy Spirit as per the Gospel of Matthew (28:19).

The apostle St. John begins his Gospel by affirming the eternal existence of the Word, indicating its unity with the Father and the Holy Spirit - the divine Trinity. He asserts that the Word was first, suggesting the preeminence of the Word, thereby allowing the fathers of the church to interpret the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. As such, the Old Testament is understood as foretelling the New Testament - the incarnation of the Son, who revealed to us His Father, and the Trinity.

When Christ queried His disciples about His identity, Saint Peter responded, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God." (Matthew 16:16). Christ then affirms that this knowledge comes from His Father, and blessed Peter for his testimony. This affirmation from Peter not only confirmed the identity of Christ, but also subtly illuminated the mystery of the Holy Trinity. Peter's words imply that Christ is the living Son of God, sustained by the life of the Holy Spirit - thereby acknowledging the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

The essence of this revelation goes further to highlight the mystery of the Incarnation. Christ, who came in the flesh, was the awaited Messiah as prophesied by the prophets. Thus, St. Peter, through divine revelation, testified to the mystery of the Trinity and the Incarnation in one breath.

This revelation of the unity and trinity of God is evident in His creation and His salvation of the world. The Old Testament foretells God's plan for the salvation of the world, and the Gospel of John reveals the Trinity's involvement in the creation and salvation of the world. It is the same Trinity, who created the world from non-existence, that also saves the world with their unified power when it falls due to wrongdoing. Thus, we come to understand the divine interaction between the Creator and the creation as revealed in the Scriptures. The Trinity's nature, revealed

 in the eternal life, is also manifest in the salvation of this world.

(Corninies) 👇

--- id:1738 | date:2023-09-17T22:36:02 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

In summary, God is one; God is three - an unfathomable mystery and a profound truth. The unity and trinity of God are essential to understanding His divine nature, His creation, and His salvific action in the world. This understanding requires God's self-revelation, which is manifest in the incarnation of the Son, the teachings of the church, and the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Only through this revelation can we begin to comprehend the depths of the mystery of the Holy Trinity.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1739 | date:2023-09-19T07:49:22 ---
https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT8jwGyXV/

--- id:1740 | date:2023-09-19T22:31:20 ---


--- id:1741 | date:2023-09-19T22:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Virtue of #Almsgiving

To bestow alms is not merely an act of human kindness but a testament to one's communion with the divine. The very fabric of our Christian faith rests on the love of God for His creation, and in almsgiving, we mirror that boundless love. As John Chrysostom might have opined, it is a silent sermon we preach, not with our lips, but with our deeds.

Recall the divine words of Scripture, so poignant and clear, "to share your bread with the hungry, to take the wretched poor into your home, and when you see the naked, to clothe him." (Isaiah 58:7). And when we act in this manner, we ought not to boast of our own righteousness or the wealth we bestow. Instead, we should understand that, by aiding another, we are truly laying treasures in the heavenly realms where neither rust nor moth destroys, and thieves do not break in and steal (Luke 12:33).

Giving is not reserved solely for the gold or silver we possess. Indeed, as our beloved Saint John the Baptist proclaimed, our charity should transcend the boundaries of race, color, creed, or tongue. We ought to give freely, in wisdom, love, counsel, and hope. This act of giving, detached from vanity, with sincerity of heart, and in the spirit of true benevolence, brings us closer to the essence of Christ Himself.

The fruits of such devout almsgiving are manifold:

1. Cleansing of the Soul: "Blessed is he who considers the poor; The Lord will deliver him in the day of trouble." (Psalm 40:1). In our act of charity, we find purification from our transgressions.

2. Salvation and Mercy: Reflect upon the words from Daniel, "Therefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to you; break off your sins by practicing righteousness, and your iniquities by showing mercy to the oppressed" (Dan 4:27). By our love and acts of mercy, we invoke the grace and forgiveness of the Most High.

3. The Eternal Reward: The Gospel of Luke reminds us, "And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they may receive you into the eternal dwellings" (Luke 16:9). Through our earthly acts of generosity, we pave our path to the eternal kingdom.

Almsgiving, thus, is more than a mere act. It is a testament to our surrender to the Almighty. Alongside prayer, fasting, and other sacred rites, it completes the symphony of our Orthodox worship. It behooves us, as followers of the teachings of the Apostles and early fathers, to uphold this tradition, lending our hands and hearts to those in need, unified in purpose and spirit.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1745 | date:2023-09-20T22:43:32 ---


--- id:1746 | date:2023-09-20T22:43:32 ---


--- id:1747 | date:2023-09-20T22:43:32 ---


--- id:1748 | date:2023-09-20T22:43:40 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Nature and Power of #Prayer

_"Pray always, lest you enter into temptation,"_ as the Holy Gospel of Matthew, in its 26th chapter and 41st verse, wisely counsels. In these simple words, lies a profound truth: Prayer is our discourse with the Most High.

The Essence of Prayer:

1. Thanksgiving: At the heart of our prayer must lie a profound gratitude. This is not merely the thanks of the lips but of the very core of our being, recognizing and revering all that the Almighty has bestowed upon us.

2. Petition: Yet, as humans, we are creatures of longing, of hope. And thus, our prayers also carry our pleas, our yearnings for the future. As our Lord proclaimed, _"Ask, and it shall be given unto you."_ (Matthew 7:7)

Posture in Prayer:
1. Stand with humility and reverence.
2. Gird your spirit, preparing it for a sacred communion.
3. Direct your gaze and heart eastward, where the light dawns, signifying Christ's resurrection.
4. Approach with a contrite heart.
5. Commence your prayers with utmost reverence and awe.
6. Prostration, a physical manifestation of our spiritual humility, as found in the spiritual traditions.

Forms of Prayer:

1. Personal Prayer: This is the solitary communion of the believer with God, be it within the sanctity of one’s home or the church.

2. Communal Prayer: The collective voice of the faithful rising in unison, be it in monasteries, assemblies, congregations, churches, or within the warm embrace of a devout family.

The True Nature of Prayer:
1. A request for that which aligns with God’s will.
2. An elevation of the soul towards the Divine.
3. An intimate conversation with God.

A Christian void of prayer is likened to a child estranged from his father. What barrenness, what desolation!

Prerequisites for Prayer:

1. Unwavering faith.
2. Dedication to the act of prayer.
3. A heart brimming with compassion.
4. Embracing the sanctity of silence.
5. Mindful of God’s love and the inevitability of death.
6. Moderation in all things.
7. Intercession for others.
8. Not being overwhelmed by earthly duties.
9. Prioritizing the Kingdom of God, as guided by Matthew 6:34.

Prayer, beloved, is the language of love, not a mere ritualistic duty. Those who neglect to pray for others betray a spirit consumed by envy. For one who abstains from prayer suffocates his spirit, akin to a fish gasping for life outside water.

Hours of Prayer:

Our Orthodox tradition has bequeathed us with seven prayerful hours, each a reflection on Christ’s life:
1. Upon awakening.
2. The third hour, pondering the descent of the Holy Spirit.
3. At noon, contemplating Christ's crucifixion.
4. The ninth hour, musing on Christ’s death.
5. Evening, reflecting on His burial.
6. Before sleep, echoing Christ’s prayers in Gethsemane.
7. At midnight, celebrating His birth, baptism, resurrection, and the promise of His return.

However, let it be known that the devout Christian is bound by duty to at the very least venerate the Lord at dawn and dusk.

Let us always remember and invoke the intercessions of the Theotokos and honor the holy Cross. Through prayer, let our souls find solace, our hearts find purpose, and our lives echo the divine symphony of God’s eternal love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1751 | date:2023-09-22T22:31:04 ---


--- id:1752 | date:2023-09-22T22:31:04 ---


--- id:1753 | date:2023-09-22T22:31:04 ---


--- id:1754 | date:2023-09-22T22:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Archangel St. #Michael 

Beloved members of John's Repentance service, today is the annual feast the St. Michael. Hence we send you this writing so you may read and partake form the Archangel's blessings. 

The Archangel St. Michael is highly revered in the Orthodox Church, celebrated for his dedicated service to God and his pivotal role as a protector, intercessor, and warrior against the forces of evil. His presence in biblical narratives and miraculous interventions mark him as a significant figure not just in the spiritual realm, but also in the lives of the faithful.

St. Michael, whose name means “Who is like God”, is the leader of the heavenly hosts and always stands before God's throne, advocating for humanity. This idea is reinforced in the Book of Joshua, where St. Michael appears as the commander of the Lord's army, showing his leadership and divine authority. His steadfast support of the saints and martyrs, offering strength and resilience, further showcases his commitment to God's people.

The church celebrates his feast on the 12th of each month, with two major feasts held on the 12th of Hator/Hidär (November 21st) and on the 12th of Paona/Sëné (June 19th). Celebrating St. Michael through these feasts is a testament to his influence and importance. Traditional practices such as offering alms and holding festivals in his name serve to honor and remember him, reflecting the deeply ingrained respect and love for St. Michael among the faithful.

Miracles are often associated with St. Michael, reinforcing his role as an active, divine participant in human affairs. The story of Dorotheus and Theopista provides a powerful example of this, as St. Michael aids this pious family in their time of need, miraculously providing for them as they honor him with a feast.

The Archangel Michael is often depicted in church iconography in a soldier's attire, symbolizing his role as the commander of the heavenly army. The spear he holds signifies his victory over Satan, as described in the book of Revelation, where he triumphs in the war in heaven, expelling the devil.

St. Michael is also recognized as the angel of the Resurrection, as cited in the Gospel of Matthew. His protective role extends to entire communities, where he is considered the guardian of monasteries, with many churches worldwide built in his honor. His widespread veneration is also reflected in the many people named after him, demonstrating the depth of his impact on the faithful.

St. Michael's humility, despite his grandeur, is evident in the epistle of Jude, where he disputes with the devil over Moses' body, showing restraint and respect for divine authority. He is also known to assist other archangels, such as Gabriel, in their missions.

Finally, as we celebrate the Annual Feast of Archangel Saint Michael, we are reminded of his role in leading the Israelites out of Egypt and guiding them through their journey, as described in the book of Exodus. He is revered as a protector and intercessor, helping those enslaved by sin, advocating for love, harmony, and peace among the faithful. 

To incorporate these lessons into our lives, we are encouraged to emulate St. Michael's humility, strength, and unwavering loyalty to God. Just as he intercedes for humanity, we too should advocate for one another in love and solidarity. And just as he battles the forces of evil, we should strive to resist sin and promote peace and harmony in our lives. As we honor St. Michael, we can draw inspiration from his divine example and aspire to reflect these virtues in our own lives.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1758 | date:2023-09-24T21:30:29 ---
👉🏾 About the #Church we should attend 

👉 Question፦ 

I’m an Ethiopian Catholic so for me it’s more learning the differences between the dogma of the churches and how certain things are practiced. Also the history of the churches and why there is a split. I’ve noticed the differences between the two churches however there are many similarities between them.

I really appreciate your words they mean a lot. It’s kind of hard making  the decision of which church i want to attend since I’m young, but I trust in God’s plan and hope to find a church that’s best for me and hopefully it’s the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Words can’t express how I appreciate you thank you so much God bless you.

Answer፦Beloved Seeker of Truth,

Your pursuit of understanding between Ethiopian Orthodoxy and Catholicism is indeed profound, as it delves into the very heart of Christendom's history.

St. Basil the Great once said, "The old truth which was known to the apostles, may it be handed down to their successors without any addition, without diminution." This speaks to the essence of Orthodoxy, where we strive to live out the apostolic faith without addition or diminution. Your quest for understanding the distinctions between Ethiopian Orthodoxy and Catholicism is a noble one, and it is heartwarming to see your recognition of both the differences and similarities.

The Ethiopian Orthodox Church, in its profound antiquity, carries practices and traditions that date back to the early apostolic era. Its liturgy, hymnography, and theological emphasis retain elements that harken back to the ancient Judaic practices, and this continuity is a testament to its deep roots in the faith. I recommend immersing yourself in the writings of the early Church Fathers, both from the pre-Schism era and those specific to the Ethiopian Orthodox tradition. This will provide you with a rich tapestry of understanding, allowing you to discern the subtle differences and shared beliefs between the traditions.

The differences between the Ethiopian Catholic Church and the Ethiopian Orthodox Church are manifold, ranging from theological nuances, ecclesiastical administration, to liturgical practices. The Ethiopian Catholic Church, while retaining many of the liturgical and cultural practices of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, is in communion with the Pope of Rome and aligns with the broader doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church. The Ethiopian Orthodox Church, on the other hand, stands as one of the Oriental Orthodox churches, maintaining its autocephalous status and unique theological and liturgical practices.

The division, or the Schism, between the Orthodox and Catholic churches is a multifaceted topic. It arose from theological differences, linguistic and cultural drifts, political divergences, and more, culminating in 1054 AD.

Your dedication to understanding these distinctions is commendable. In your pursuit, I would advise engaging in prayerful reading and study. Dive deep into the teachings of both the Ethiopian Orthodox. Many revered Orthodox theologians and Church Fathers have written extensively on these matters, and their insights would be invaluable.

Dear seeker, what are the specific questions you have in regards to the differences between the Catholic and the Orthodox Church? What are your questions about the Ethiopian Orthodox Church?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1759 | date:2023-09-25T21:34:20 ---
👉🏾 About #spiritual life 

👉 Question፦ What is a spiritual life?
I’ve been a Christian my whole life and I’m lost I don’t know what path to take I feel like I don’t hear god calling me

Answer፦  Beloved in Christ, a spiritual life is a journey of deep intimacy and communion with our Lord Jesus Christ, marked by prayer, fasting, almsgiving, and participation in the sacramental life of the Church. It is a life where the soul seeks to grow in virtue and humility, turning away from the passions and temptations of this world, and focusing on the eternal Kingdom. Just as our physical body needs nourishment and care, so too does our soul. Saint Seraphim of Sarov once said, "Acquire the Spirit of Peace and a thousand souls around you will be saved."

In essence, a spiritual life is the constant pursuit of holiness and unity with God. As the Scriptures teach us: "But as He who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, because it is written, 'Be holy, for I am holy.'" (1 Peter 1:15-16).

Beloved one, your heartfelt cry resonates with many souls, even those who walked this Earth long before us. In moments of spiritual desolation, it's important to remember the words of St. John of the Cross, a mystic, albeit from a different Christian tradition, who spoke of the 'Dark Night of the Soul' – a period where one feels distant from God, yet it is often in these times that our souls are deepened and purified.

Remember the Psalmist's lament: "Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me?" (Psalm 42:11). Yet, he also reminds himself: "Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God." Also note that the call might be subtle, a whisper rather than a shout. As it is written in 1 Kings 19:12, God sometimes speaks in a "still small voice."

In the Orthodox tradition, we believe that sometimes, God allows us to experience such feelings to draw us closer to Him in humility, dependence, and trust. It's crucial not to rely solely on feelings, for our relationship with God transcends mere emotion. In these moments of desolation, the practices of the Church, like attending the Divine Liturgy, confession, prayer, and reading Scriptures, can be a guiding light.

I urge you, dear one, to seek out a spiritual father in the Orthodox Church. You may also reach out to Dcn. Kidus at (512) 537-1651. He is a trusted and wise advisor that can help you walk the right path. Speaking with him may provide clarity and comfort in these trying times. Such guidance can help you discern God's voice amidst the noise and confusion of life. As you reach out for guidance, know that you are never truly alone; the Church, both in its earthly and heavenly forms, is with you. You can also send us any questions you have anytime. 

What immediate, tangible actions do you think you can take to deepen your connection to God, so that His voice becomes clearer amidst the noise of the world? 

May the peace of our Lord Jesus Christ, which surpasses all understanding, guard your heart and mind in these challenging times.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1760 | date:2023-09-26T22:02:21 ---


--- id:1761 | date:2023-09-26T22:02:21 ---


--- id:1762 | date:2023-09-26T22:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

👉🏾 Question from member: I often feel depressed and lonely. Life has no meaning to me, I just want to die and live with Jesus, I've been looking for happiness all my life but I can't find it, I feel like my mind is going to explode, please pray for me, I need prayer, what do you recommend?

✍️Answer:- Why does a person choose loneliness? Why does a person hide? In essence, man is not happy without God, because there is no peace without God. Jesus Christ said in the Gospel of John, chapter 14, verse 27, "Peace I leave with you, and my peace I give you, the peace I give you is not as the world gives; do not let your hearts be troubled, do not be afraid."
 
The world kisses us today then bites tomorrow; gives today then takes away tomorrow. But God does not take away what He has given, no matter what, there is no peace without God. What is life? Life is the opposite of death, life is living. Life is God, it is written, "Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life."
 
Therefore, if we believe in the Son, we live with Jesus who is the life. It is Jesus Christ who gave life when human beings could not live according to the commandment, it is Jesus Christ who enlightened the dark world. In fact, this Christmas (birth) season is called the light. And if it is said who is the light: it is Jesus Christ.

This world was dark before God the Son became a man. The world lived in darkness. It is called light because God became a man and enlightened the world by making us members of His body. Many people's lives are in darkness. Darkness is sin, darkness is betrayal, darkness is hatred, darkness is lack of love; On the other hand, light is Jesus Christ, light is life, light is religion, light is peace, light is help, blessing and love. Because it is our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who gave us that, there is no life without Jesus Christ.
 
As the owner himself told us, John Gospel chapter 15 verse 5 said "without me you can do nothing", so without Jesus Christ nothing can be done. How can peace be found without Jesus Christ? How can you live? Absolutely not possible. When Judas betrayed Jesus Christ for 30 dollars he died because he was separated from Jesus Christ who is life. We remember that when the devil was once the archangel, when he forgot God and said, "I am the creator," and then failed and separated from God who is life.

Also, when Adam lived peacefully in paradise for seven years and did what he was told not to do, he lost peace from God who is life, and found it difficult to live. but then we remember that he found peace when he returned to God, when he reconciled with God, so there is no peace without God.
 
Our questioner said that they want to die and live with Jesus Christ. So, those of us who do not have peace on earth, those who have fallen into sin on earth, those who have not tried to repent to find Jesus Christ, how can we find peace if we die? What qualifies us for the kingdom of heaven is the work we have done on earth to live with Jesus Christ and enable us to live in heaven. If we die on earth covered in sin, without repentance, confession, and reconciliation with God, we will not be able to live with Jesus. Therefore, it means that we cannot live with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ before we repent. 

(to be continued)👇

--- id:1763 | date:2023-09-26T22:36:02 ---
An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

(continued part)👆👇

Our dear member told us that their mind is going to explode. It is God who gives us peace of mind. 
The mind wants shelter, it wants peace but the conscience blames it. For example, a person knows that stealing is bad before learning to steal, knows that killing is bad before learning to kill. Our consciousness tells us what is good and bad because that is the way it was created; Man is a creature created to distinguish good from evil, evil from good, and what is useful from what is not. 

Therefore, we must all seek life, and if we are willing to find life, we can repent of our sins and find God; God is near, God is love. "You return and I will return," God is not a cruel father who tells you to stay where you left. What He told us is  those of you who have fallen come back to me, . God is a compassionate and merciful father.
 
First He created us in His image, we humans failed to live, we fell, we were the kings of creation but because of our sin we fell from our glory; He came back in search of us, born of the Holy Virgin Mary as a man. After that, he paid many prices for us, to bring back our exiled ones, he was exiled for us, then He was whipped with 6666 lashes, crucified in the square of Calvary, to bring us back what we lost and even more. He gave us his holy body and his precious blood. Eat my flesh, drink my blood, that he may bring us back with food that we have fallen by eating, there is no greater life than this.

Even after He has conquered death,  He told us that  if you fall into sin, even if you make a mistake, repent and come to Me. Therefore, what is needed to live with God is to persevere in his house until the end, it is necessary to continuously take part of his holy body and his precious blood, the Eucharist. 
 
As we have said so far, life means living with God, and what is needed to live with God is to first repent. Therefore, may God help us all who have fallen into sin to repent, stay in the house until the end of our lives, receive His holy body and his precious blood, and live with God in his house.
 
Praise be to God, the Virgin Mother and the cross.
 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1764 | date:2023-09-28T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1765 | date:2023-09-28T22:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 In Search of the Divine #Cross

Beloved in Christ, today we have celebrated the finding of the Cross by St. Helena. The Ethiopian Orthodox narrative regarding the True Cross is rich, steeped in history, and holds a resonance that echoes in our hearts, much like the great teachings of our church fathers.

👉 The Precursors to the Cross's Discovery

Before Helena's endeavor to recover the cross, it was prophesied in various Ethiopian texts, blending seamlessly with the Biblical narrative. The Kebra Nagast, one of our most cherished writings, hints at the future rediscovery of the cross. Such texts serve as spiritual compasses, guiding the faithful toward greater understanding.

The cross is not simply an instrument of death; in Ethiopian Orthodoxy, it represents the intertwining of mankind’s salvation and Christ’s sacrifice. When we reflect upon Adam, our forefather, it is said that from his burial place at Golgotha, the wood that would form the True Cross sprouted.

👉 Queen Helena's Divine Endeavour

Our narrative is enriched by the dedication of Queen Helena, mother to Constantine the Great. Her pilgrimage to Jerusalem wasn’t just for devotion; it was a divine mission to recover the True Cross upon which our Savior was crucified.

Her quest, fueled by dreams and divine interventions, led her to the Holy Land. With fervent dedication, she oversaw excavations at Golgotha. And lo, three crosses were found. But which was the True Cross of Christ?

It was in the divinely inspired wisdom of a holy man that the True Cross was identified. By touching each cross to a dying woman, the True Cross manifested its sanctity by restoring her to life. Such was its power, such was its grace!

👉 Meskel: The Celebration of the Cross in Ethiopia

We Ethiopians are blessed with the festival of Meskel, an annual reminder of the discovery of the True Cross. This celebration, marked with bonfires and fervent prayers, represents not just the physical finding of the cross, but the spiritual rediscovery of its significance in our hearts. It is a fusion of joy, gratitude, and renewal.

Deep Revelations of the Cross:

1. The Cross as Divine Love's Apex:
In the silent proclamation of the Cross, we hear the resounding declaration of God’s love. Just as our Lord gave himself up for us, we too are called to love sacrificially, reflecting His selflessness. Our love should mirror that of Christ's – boundless, unwavering, and forgiving.

2. The Cross as Our Fortress:
In the words of our venerable Saint Yared, “The Cross is our stronghold.” It reminds us that through Christ’s sacrifice, we have overcome the world, sin, and death. As the psalmist proclaims, we find refuge in the shadow of His wings – and the Cross stands testament to this.

3. Embracing the Cross's Path:
The path of the Cross is one of sacrifice, as Christ himself proclaimed, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me.” To bear one’s cross is to embrace the sufferings, trials, and tribulations that come with our earthly pilgrimage, always with an eye towards the heavenly reward.

In conclusion, my beloved, the story of the discovery of the True Cross is not merely a historical recounting, but an ever-present call to embrace our faith, to delve deep into the love of Christ, and to remember that through His sacrifice, we find salvation. Like Queen Helena, may we always seek the Cross in our lives, find it, and cherish its divine message.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1766 | date:2023-09-29T22:31:10 ---


--- id:1767 | date:2023-09-29T22:31:10 ---


--- id:1768 | date:2023-09-29T22:31:12 ---


--- id:1769 | date:2023-09-29T22:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; As mentioned in the title, we have sent you the following important lesson about the monthly commemoration of the Archangel Gabriel, which is celebrated today, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

St. Gabriel is the 2nd ranked angel power after St. Michael among the 7 archangels. He is described in the scriptures equally as the Archangel Michael in his intercession and mediation. Gabriel means servant and messenger of God. He is given this mysterious name because it is often revealed in the form of a human being and conveys God's message or God's will to mankind. In the place where the angels were created, when God, who created them, disappeared from their eyes in an instant to ensure the stability of their religion. Then question arose in the society of angels: 'Who created us?', 'Where did we come from?'  At this time, the father of destruction, the devil, boldly and defiantly said, "I have created you." But the angel Saint Gabriel calmed down the association of countless holy angels by saying that we should stand firm where we are. Because of this, as it is written on John 1:14, 'The Word became flesh', he was chosen to announce to the Virgin that the Son of God  will come down from heaven and be born as a man from the Virgin Mary. The angel Gabriel said to the her, "Behold, you will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will call his name Jesus. He is great. He will be called the Son of the Most High (Luke 1:31). Now that we have learned something about the Archangel, we will proceed with today's feast. 

This is the miracle he performed on December 28th (annual commemoration day) : Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael (Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego) from the furnace fire. If you ask how this happened, when they were living in captivity in Persian Babylon, King Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel the fourth and placed them in the palace to learn wisdom from Babylon. Meldar, their steward, offered them meat and wine in goblets. They said, "We will not eat this. Give us some grain and good water." He said to them, "If the king sees your weight loss, he will be angry." They said give us a date. He gave them 10 days. They ate grains and drank water, and they were more handsome and bright than those who ate meat and drank wine. While they were learning, the Lord revealed his wisdom to them and they became wise, especially Daniel who enterpreted the king's vision. Then because of this, the king appointed them in three states. But the Babylonians were jealous of this and thought of a reason to quarrel with the king. They said to the king, make a picture of yourself so you can distinguish between your friend and your enemy. He made a gold statue 60 cubits high and 6 cubits wide and placed it in the field of Aduran and proclaimed that those who do not bow to it will be punished. When everybody bowed down, they  (Ananya, Azariah, and Mishael) said, "We will not bow down." And the Babylonians went and told the king. The king then ordered they be brought before him for questioning. He asked them 'Do you say that we should not worship?' They said yes. 'Who will save you?' They said to him "the God that created us will save us." He kindled a fire, and the flame became 49 cubits.

After this, he selected the mighty ones and threw the three into the fire. The soldiers who pushed them to fire were burned but  for the three (Ananya, Azariah, Misael) the angel Gabriel came down and touched the fire with his rod, it turned into water. When the Babylonians saw that the fire was extinguished, they added more fire to it and activated the burn. But they (Ananya, Azariah, Mishael) spent the night singing praises to God without being burned.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:1770 | date:2023-09-29T22:36:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

(continued part)👆👇

In the morning, when Nebuchadnezzar looked from his balcony, he saw four of them walking in the fire. Yesterday we tied three men and threw them out of the fiery furnace, but today I see four of them released  and walking in the fire. And immediately he went out of the oven and said to them, come out. They ran out. Not even an ash was found on their clothes. Nebuchadnezzar saw this and said, "Praise be to God, the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who sent his angel and saved the poor." 'King, do you think it's true? It was because of their magic' said the Babylonians. And the king said 'If by magic, save yourselves by your magic for there is none greater than you, and then added the Babylonians to the fire and burned them.

And the king returned the decree with a decree saying that there is no one who can save except the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. (Dan chapter 3)

👉🏾 In addition to the above, here are some of the main works of intercession and mediation that the angel Saint Gabriel is known for, which he performed by the grace given to him from the Creator:-

👉 1st/ He told the prophet Daniel in a vision about what was going to happen. 15:16)

👉 2. Also, in the vision that the prophet Daniel saw again, he said this about the angel, "While I was still praying, the angel I had seen in the vision before, Gabriel, came flying... He taught me and told me... Daniel, I have come now to give you wisdom and understanding" (Dan 9: 21-23)

👉 3rd / Saint Gabriel is the angel who saved Daniel from the lion's mouth.

👉 4th /  Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael from the furnace fire. 

👉 5th/ He announced to the priest Zacharias and Saint Elizabeth that they would give birth to John the Baptist in their old age.

👉 6. He announced to the Virgin Mary that the physical word Jesus Christ, who is the cure of the world, would be born from the her.

👉 7th/ He saved  St. Jeletan and the child Kirkos from a boiling fire in an iron tank. 

👉 8th/ He led the wise men to the city of Bethlehem where the Lord was born, leading them with the sign of a star.

👉 9th/ Old Joseph was told in a dream to take his mother and baby and flee to Egypt.

👉 10/ In addition, Saint Gabriel announced the conception of Samson; He brought forth water for Agar in the desert. He who interpreted the mystery to Daniel; He is an angel appointed over serpents and scorpions.

In general, we find this angel's intercession and guardianship in many readings of the holy books; God has helped us to write to you on the occasion of the monthly holiday that we celebrate today, March 28th, so that we may all receive the intercession and blessings of the angel Saint Gabriel. 

Therefore, if the Lord God had not sent his angels to protect us night and morning, day and night, on the road, when we sleep at home and when we get up, Satan's army would have prevent us from having life in this world and the next .

God's prophet, Saint David, said, "No calamity will enter your house. He will raise up angels for you to guard you on your way. They will lift you up with their hands so that your feet will not stumble over a stone..." Telling us about the guardianship and protection of angels.

In another paragraph, he said, "God's angel will live around those who fear him, and will save them." He said that angels will save people who believe in the guardianship and intercession of angels, and that they will save us from physical and spiritual suffering. (Ps 33:7, 90/91:10')

Since angels are appointed to have authority over all creatures, the prophet Enoch told us about the power of intercessor and guardianship of Saint Gabriel saying that he is one of the noble angels appointed over the serpents, the righteous in heaven, and the cherubim. (Enoch 6:7)

May the prayers and supplications of this great angel of light rest upon us

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1772 | date:2023-09-30T21:31:14 ---


--- id:1773 | date:2023-09-30T21:31:14 ---


--- id:1774 | date:2023-09-30T21:31:14 ---


--- id:1775 | date:2023-09-30T21:33:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Sacrament of the Holy #Communion as an Offering

To our cherished and devout followers of the teachings of the Holy Orthodox Church, as promulgated through the teachings and commentaries of our beloved father, John Chrysostom, I offer this profound exploration of the Holy Communion as an offering.

In our current era, there are many who, in their quest to redefine and reform, have posed questions, even challenges, to the mysteries of our faith. Among these, there are those who question the very nature of the Holy Eucharist, doubting its divine foundation, claiming that it "does not merit the title of a sacrifice." Their skepticism is not unexpected, for it is but an extension of their overarching doubts about the mysteries of our faith.

The Unique Sacrifice of Christ

In pondering upon this, one must recall the divine sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Christ. He was both fully God and fully man when He offered His "unique sacrifice" upon the cross. This sacrifice was unlike any other:

1) The Nature of the Sacrifice: The high priests of old offered the blood of lambs or calves – beings separate from themselves. Yet, Christ, in His ineffable love, became both the sacrificer and the sacrificed, offering His own holy blood for our salvation. As Scripture teaches us, "By his own blood he entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us" (Heb. 9:12).

2) The Eternal Efficacy of the Sacrifice: Where the high priests of yore had to make yearly offerings for atonement, Christ’s singular sacrifice on the cross holds eternal merit. His was a sacrifice that need not be repeated, for its power transcends the confines of time. As the Apostle says in Hebrews, "Nor did he enter heaven to offer himself again and again... but he has appeared once for all at the culmination of the ages to do away with sin by the sacrifice of himself" (Heb. 9:25-28).

3) The Everlasting Priesthood of Christ: The high priests of ancient Israel were mortals and thus subject to death, necessitating successors. Yet Christ, being eternal, holds an everlasting priesthood, where He intercedes for us for all time, echoing the words, "You are a priest forever, in the order of Melchizedek" (Ps. 109:4; Heb. 7:1-3).

4) The Comprehensive Redemption: The old sacrifices granted temporal relief, perhaps from plagues or adversities. Christ’s sacrifice, however, offers comprehensive redemption, addressing not just temporal, but eternal ramifications.

The Continuation of this Sacrifice in the Holy Communion

But what then of the Holy Eucharist? How does this divine mystery relate to Christ’s singular sacrifice on the cross? It is essential to understand that the Eucharist is not a separate or new sacrifice. It is, in every sense, a continuation, a re-presentation of that singular, eternal offering made by Christ. Through the Eucharist, we partake in that very same body and blood that was offered for our salvation.

The notion of the Eucharist being outside of time, a concept referred to as "kairos" in Greek, is central. Although Christ’s sacrifice took place at a specific historical moment (within "kronos" or chronological time), its significance and efficacy are eternal, transcending the bounds of earthly time.

It is with this understanding that we affirm the Eucharist as a sacrifice. Each time we participate in the Holy Communion, we are partaking in the very same sacrifice that Christ made on Calvary. This is not a repetition but a divine participation in that one eternal event. As our Lord declared, "Do this in remembrance of me."

The Apostle Paul’s declaration, "We have an altar" (Heb. 13:10), is not a mere historical reference. It is a testament to the continued presence and efficacy of Christ’s sacrifice within our midst, through the Holy Eucharist.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1776 | date:2023-09-30T21:36:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

In conclusion, let it be known, to all seekers of divine truth, that the Holy Communion is not merely a symbolic gesture. It is a profound, living, and dynamic participation in the unique and eternal sacrifice of Christ. It is with this deep understanding that we, the faithful of the Orthodox Tewahedo Church, approach the Holy Eucharist with reverence, recognizing it for the divine sacrifice that it truly is.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1777 | date:2023-10-01T21:31:17 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About John's Repentance spiritual service 

👉 Question፦ How can you help me in my spiritual life? 

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Thank you for asking us  about the different services we provide. Our Lord Jesus Christ once said, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (Matthew 7:7).

Orthodoxy, the ancient Christian faith, has been a balm for countless souls throughout the millennia. It is a journey towards knowing the Creator, towards understanding oneself, and towards eternal communion with the Divine. How can we serve you on this blessed journey?

1. Answering your questions: No question is too small or too big. In the tradition of the Church Fathers, we address doubts, inquiries, and guide souls towards the Truth.
 
2. Engaging through Social Media: Just as the Apostle Paul traveled to spread the word of Christ, we use modern tools, like our numerous social media sites, to reach out to contemporary souls. They offer insights, teachings, and practices deeply rooted in the Orthodox tradition.

3. Spiritual Partnerships: The Christian journey is one seldom walked alone. Our spiritual partners, drawing from the Orthodox monastic tradition of spiritual fatherhood and guidance, will walk alongside you, supporting you in every step, ensuring that you are not alone in this pilgrimage.

4. Introducing Orthodoxy: America, like many parts of the world, thirsts for spiritual depth. Orthodoxy, with its sacraments, teachings, and traditions, offers a fountain of living water to quench this thirst.

Note that there is no concept of payment or anything for any of our services. 

May your heart be guided towards the everlasting Light of Christ. What step, dear seeker, do you feel called to take next in this sacred journey towards Him?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1780 | date:2023-10-04T00:00:24 ---


--- id:1781 | date:2023-10-04T00:00:25 ---


--- id:1782 | date:2023-10-04T00:00:25 ---


--- id:1783 | date:2023-10-04T00:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Radiance of #Saint #George: Martyrdom and Light

In the vast tapestry of Christian saints and martyrs, St. George stands as an emblem of unwavering faith, luminous courage, and an ethereal embodiment of Christ's light. His tale, while ancient, brings forth lessons that are eternally valuable, ever relevant, and strikingly profound.

Born Amidst Piety and Purity

Hailing from Cappadocia, a region known for its deeply spiritual ethos, St. George was born in 280 A.D. to a lineage of nobles who were devout Christians. From a tender age, he was bathed in the teachings of Christ, absorbing the essence of love, sacrifice, and redemption.

The Soldier of Christ in a Material World

Choosing a life in the Roman army was not merely a temporal decision for young George. It was his means to weave spiritual principles within worldly duties. As he climbed ranks, his integrity and virtue were undeniable. Rumors suggest his friendship with the future Emperor Constantine, but the true heart of St. George’s legend lies not in alliances but in his audacious proclamation of faith.

Dark Times and a Light that Never Dimmed

The Eastern Empire's heartbeat, Nicomedia, became the epicenter of an unprecedented assault on Christianity. Emperor Diocletian, in 303 A.D., issued an edict that sought to obliterate Christian existence. Sacred places of worship were razed, scriptures set aflame, and believers met with unspeakable horrors.

Yet, amidst this suffocating darkness, St. George emerged as a beacon of divine light. With heavenly audacity, he tore the very edict that condemned his kin and faith. This act was not of rebellion, but of celestial affirmation.

Divine Dialogues with Diocletian

Emperor Diocletian, both fascinated and threatened by George’s undying spirit, sought to lure him with promises of grandeur. But how can earthly titles tempt a soul that had tasted divine love? Threats of torture were also in vain. For every wound inflicted upon his mortal coil, George’s spirit soared higher.

Chastity and Celestial Companionship

One poignant episode is of Diocletian sending a woman of unparalleled beauty to lead George astray. However, George, with eyes only for the Divine, became a conduit of grace. The very woman sent to seduce him became enraptured by Christ's love, boldly professing her newfound faith and joining the choir of martyrs.

Martyrdom and the Resounding Echo of Faith

St. George’s trials, both physical and spiritual, were manifold. Tortured in ways that defy human imagination, he was raised by Christ Himself, only to be tested again. Yet, every test left onlookers astounded, leading many to embrace Christianity. The Emperor's vexation reached a crescendo, and he ordered a poison so potent it was deemed undefiable. Yet, the Saint, with merely the sign of the cross, rendered it harmless.

Diocletian, unable to comprehend such grace, granted George a final audience. Offered a last chance to forsake Christ, George’s response was resounding. He chose martyrdom over betrayal. His beheading was not a mere execution; it was his final act of love for Christ.

Legacy: A Beacon for Eternity

Word of George's martyrdom spread like wildfire. The Christian diaspora began venerating him, constructing places of worship in his name. His feast on April 23rd became a sacred day of remembrance. With time, legends like his conquest of the dragon emerged, symbolizing the victory of good over insurmountable evil.

Saint George remains an eternal symbol of hope, courage, and unyielding faith. In his story, we are reminded that, faced with adversities, true faith never wavers. In the midst of darkness, it is the light of Christ, as witnessed in the life of St. George, that will guide us home.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1785 | date:2023-10-06T00:30:21 ---


--- id:1786 | date:2023-10-06T00:30:21 ---


--- id:1787 | date:2023-10-06T00:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Tekle_Haymanot 

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you a lesson on St. Tekle Haymanot, who's monthly feast we celebrated yesterday so that you may better understand his story and use it as an inspiration to shape yours. 

Venerated Pillar of Apostolic Faith

Just as a well-nurtured tree yields bounteous fruit, so too is the true faith enriched and passed down by holy servants of the Lord. Consider the chronicles of Saint Tekle Haymanot, the radiant beacon of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.

Born to the world on December 27, 1214 AD, his entry into this realm had been divinely announced the prior year, on March 27, 1214 AD. Originally christened "Fiseha Zion," he was reared under this name and in the devout shadow of his father, Tzaga Ze'ab. Young Fiseha Zion immersed himself in holy scriptures, the Bluyat and the Hadisat, manifesting an early zeal for divine matters. Legend recounts his prowess as a hunter, but in a profound epiphany, the heavens rent asunder, revealing our Savior Jesus Christ, borne on the wings of Archangel Michael, with a celestial chorus of angels in tow. Addressing the astounded youth, our Lord decreed, "Henceforth, you shall bear the name 'Planted Trinity,' and your hunt shall no longer be for game, but for souls. Fear not, for I am perpetually at your side." And then, as mysteriously as He had appeared, our Lord vanished into the heavenly expanse.

Armed with this divine mandate, Saint Tekle Haymanot distributed his earthly possessions among the needy and embarked on a divine mission, starting at Mnane. Ordained by the Pope, he began evangelizing with such enthusiasm that his very first sermon led ten thousand souls in the region of "Shwa Tsilalesh" to baptism. He then traversed vast tracts of Ethiopia, reclaiming lands and souls lost to foreign religions due to past onslaughts by Judith and Islamic influence. He unflinchingly faced down the heretical Marian sorcerers.

Apart from his evangelical conquests, Saint Tekle Haymanot was a cornerstone of monasticism in Ethiopia. His dedication saw him serve in three renowned monasteries: Abune Besilote Michael Monastery for twelve years, Abune Jesus Moa Zahaiq Monastery for seven years, and Debre Damo for another seven years alongside Abune Yohani. This sums up to an impressive twenty-six years. Post his monastic commitments, he retreated to Medreshwa (Zorre), where he spent twenty-two years in deep prayer, during which he famously planted six spears around him and prayed continuously for seven years.

His faith was not confined to Ethiopia. Spiritual encounters and blessings marked his pilgrimage to Jerusalem. At the sight of the sacred places, including Christ's crucifixion at Calvary, he wept bitterly. Legend speaks of a divine vision he received wherein he beheld the Holy Trinity in its unity and trinity and declared, "Glory to the Holy Trinity," before descending back to earth.

The miraculous exploits of Saint Tekle Haymanot are innumerable. He resurrected the dead, healed the ailing, exorcised demons, and performed wonders that transcended the earthly realm. He was a luminary, a beacon guiding many towards the light of Orthodoxy, and even founded Mount Lebanon Monastery, a unique abode where male and female monks coexisted in spiritual harmony. After a lifetime replete with tribulations and triumphs for the faith, he entered the heavenly abode at the age of ninety-nine, on August 25, 1314 AD.

May the blessings and intercession of our revered father, Saint Tekle Haymanot, always be our fortress and guide, amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1791 | date:2023-10-07T21:30:01 ---


--- id:1792 | date:2023-10-07T21:33:01 ---
🌸🌼🌸 The #Tsige #Fast: A Deep Dive into a Sacred Ethiopian Commemoration 🌸🌼🌸

In the vast tapestry of faith that characterizes Ethiopian Orthodoxy, the "Tsige fast" emerges as a significant and poignant observance. As the landscape of Ethiopia transforms, blossoming into a resplendent array of flora, a sacred tale of perseverance, faith, and divine protection is revisited by the faithful.

Nature's Canvas and the Divine Tale

When the earth's canvas is dappled with the hues of flowers, and the chirping of the birds forms a celestial orchestra, the Ethiopian Orthodox community steps into the 'Werha Tsige' - the season of Tsige fast. Solomon, in his wisdom, described this time poetically, encapsulating the essence of nature’s beauty juxtaposed with divine truths. As flowers bloom and grace the fields, they echo the Savior’s words, underscoring the transient nature of earthly grandeur and the steadfast love of the Almighty.

Journey into Exile: The Backdrop of Tsige Fast

However, the heart of this fasting period lies not just in nature's beauty, but in the remembrance of a perilous journey undertaken by Our Lady and Our Lord. As Herod's malevolence threatened the life of the infant Christ, the angel of the Lord directed Joseph to seek refuge in foreign lands. This journey, a harrowing trek through the deserts of Egypt and the vast expanse of Ethiopia, spanned three years and six months.

The arid landscapes, sweltering days, and the anguish of exile tried Our Lady’s resilience. Yet, even in the face of adversity, she stood as the epitome of unwavering faith. The rose-like beauty of the Virgin was tested by the scorching sands and endless trials. This poignant narrative resonates in the works of Aba Tsige and Abba Gebre Maryam, who likened the Holy Virgin and Christ to flowers and fruits, symbols of purity, sacrifice, and divine love.

A Reflection on Life's Transience

As nature's blooms rise and fall, they whisper to the faithful the evanescent nature of life. David and Isaiah, with their prophetic voices, accentuated this truth, urging believers to align their lives with the eternal and to find solace in the divine. Life, akin to fleeting flowers, should be lived with an acute awareness of its impermanence and with an undying hope in the promise of resurrection.

Embracing the Tsige Fast

During this sacred time, many embark on the fasting journey after seeking guidance from their spiritual fathers. While this specific fast is a revered tradition, it is not enforced. It is a personal endeavor, embraced willingly and with devotion. Yet, even those not fasting are encouraged to meditate upon Our Lady's trials, offering prayers and hymns in her honor.

Concluding Reflections

The Tsige fast, thus, stands not merely as an observance of abstinence but as a profound spiritual voyage, leading one closer to the heart of divine mysteries. It reminds the faithful of the boundless love of God and as nature paints its seasonal masterpiece, the Ethiopian Orthodox community is called to introspect, to embrace faith more fervently, and to walk the path illuminated by divine grace.

May this period be one of profound reflection, sincere prayers, and unyielding faith, as we remember the journey of Our Lady and Our Lord, the radiant flowers that withstood the harshest of storms. 🌸🙏🌼

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1797 | date:2023-10-09T22:15:21 ---
👉🏾 About #anxiety  

👉 Question፦ Please pray for me - anxiety is causing me a lot of pain. My pain is so high that there doesn't even seem to be a God - please help me! 

Answer፦ 

Dearest Seeker, In the vast richness of human existence, where threads of joy and sorrow intertwine, there are moments of profound despair, akin to what you are experiencing. The weight of such anguish can indeed make one question the very fabric of existence and the presence of a Divine Creator.

The Orthodox tradition, as you rightly pointed out, holds the suffering of Christ as the pinnacle of all human suffering. When we juxtapose our pain against His, it provides a perspective that can be both humbling and enlightening. Christ's suffering was not just physical but also spiritual, a torment that encompassed the entirety of human experience.

Anxiety, as you described, is a multifaceted beast. It arises from both tangible and intangible sources, from fears both seen and unseen. It is a testament to the complex nature of our minds that we can be tormented by things both real and imagined. But remember, as the ancient fathers taught, the devil is the architect of all evil, the one who sows the seeds of doubt, fear, and despair. Yet, God does not abandon us in these trials. As St. Paul and St. Peter professed, we must find joy even in our suffering, for through it we are refined and brought closer to the Divine.

To navigate this labyrinth of anxiety, one must first discern its origin. Is it borne out of personal insecurities, external pressures, or perhaps spiritual warfare? Identifying the root cause is the first step towards healing.

Once identified, the Orthodox tradition offers a plethora of spiritual tools to combat this ailment:

1. Confession to the Church Fathers: Pour out your heart, detailing the onset and nature of your anxiety. This act of vulnerability can be cathartic and provide clarity.
2. Unceasing Prayer: Retreat, if possible, to a monastery and immerse yourself in prayer, allowing the fathers to intercede on your behalf.
3. Resilience: The devil seeks to dishearten us. By holding onto hope, we deny him victory.
4. Spiritual Practices: Engage in fasting, prayer, prostration, and reading of the holy scriptures. These acts fortify the spirit against the onslaught of anxiety.
5. Repentance: Sin distances us from God. By repenting, we bridge that gap and find peace in His embrace.
6. Engage in Spiritual Music and Literature: Let the divine words and melodies cleanse and rejuvenate your soul.
7. Unwavering Faith: Cast all your burdens onto God, trusting in His infinite wisdom and mercy.

Our Savior, Jesus Christ, beckons us with open arms, offering solace and peace. He reminds us not to be burdened by the worries of tomorrow but to seek His kingdom and righteousness above all.

In your moments of doubt, remember that God's grace is ever-present. Anxiety, in its essence, is a manifestation of disbelief. By nurturing our faith, we shield ourselves from its clutches.

Lastly, dear seeker, know that you are not alone in your struggle. The community, the church, and all believers stand with you. We shall keep you in our prayers, imploring the Almighty to grant you peace and strength.

May the cross of our Lord shine brightly, and may the Virgin Mother of God intercede on your behalf. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1798 | date:2023-10-10T22:30:17 ---


--- id:1799 | date:2023-10-10T22:30:17 ---


--- id:1800 | date:2023-10-10T22:30:17 ---


--- id:1801 | date:2023-10-10T22:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson on the Birth of St. #John the Baptist

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today is the monthly feast of the birth of Saint John the Baptist. Let us delve into the depth of his life and draw valuable lessons for our spiritual journey.

In the pages of Holy Scripture, the Gospel according to St. Matthew recounts the extraordinary events surrounding the birth and ministry of St. John. As St. Matthew writes, in those days, the voice of St. John the Baptist resounded through the wilderness of Judea, proclaiming with urgency, "The kingdom of heaven is near, repent!" (Matthew 3:2). Such was the resolute conviction with which he preached, invoking the words of the prophet Isaiah, "Prepare the way of the Lord" (Isaiah 40:3).

Now, dear brethren, let us reflect upon the essence of St. John's message. In the New Testament, it is God Himself who, in His infinite mercy, offers true forgiveness of sins. It is He who beckons us to prepare our hearts for this divine forgiveness, directing us to the true Father who possesses the power to absolve all transgressions. St. John, in his ministry, baptized with water for repentance, inviting people to a life of genuine contrition. However, he proclaimed, "But the one who comes after me will baptize you with the Holy Spirit" (Matthew 3:11). He revealed that the Messiah, our Lord Jesus Christ, would restore humanity to the status of God's beloved children, emancipating them from sin's grip.

In the depth of his wisdom, St. John acknowledged his own unworthiness to even bear the shoes of the One who was to come. He declared, "He who comes after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire" (Matthew 3:11). St. John recognized his role as the humble precursor to the One who would effect a profound transformation in the lives of believers. With an evocative metaphor, he compared the Lord to a winnower who would thoroughly cleanse the threshing floor, gathering the wheat into the barn while burning the chaff with unquenchable fire (Matthew 3:12).

Therefore, dear members, let us take heed of St. John's exhortation. Those who stubbornly persist in rebellion and continue in sin, disregarding the counsel, reproof, and truth proclaimed to them, shall face judgment. St. John, the forerunner, exemplified a life of penitence even before the Lord's earthly manifestation. He was born to our father Zacharias and our mother Saint Elizabeth, with the archangel Gabriel foretelling his birth and his divine calling. From his mother's womb, he was destined to live a life of exceptional holiness, preparing the way for the Lord and proclaiming a genuine sermon of repentance. He abstained from worldly pleasures, not even tasting the flavor of meat or wine, choosing instead to sustain himself with a diet of locusts and desert honey.

Furthermore, dear members, contemplate the unique position held by St. John the Baptist. Even before his birth, while he was still in his mother's womb, he received divine revelation concerning the approach of the Virgin Mary, the mother of our Lord. As the blessed Mary entered the presence of St. Elizabeth, the unborn John, filled with the Holy Spirit, leaped for joy, acknowledging the sacredness of the encounter. In awe, St. Elizabeth exclaimed, "How is it that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" (Luke 1:43). Thus, we witness the extraordinary moment when the first apostle, St. John, bearing witness from his mother's womb, testified to the divine nature of Christ. Truly, he was a martyr even before his birth.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1802 | date:2023-10-10T22:36:02 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

On this festive occasion, as we celebrate the birth of St. John the Baptist, let us embrace the profound lessons embedded in his life. Let us draw from the wellspring of his unwavering faith, his fervent proclamation of repentance, and his humble surrender before the Messiah. In our journey towards God's kingdom, let us awaken from the slumber of sin and strive for true repentance, guided by the message of St. John the Baptist.

Therefore, dear members, let us remember that our website, bearing the name of St. John the Baptist, is rooted in the purpose of his repentance sermon. It is through this lens that we seek to share the message of repentance, offering guidance and support to all who yearn to draw closer to God's kingdom. May the life and ministry of St. John inspire us to pursue genuine contrition, transforming our hearts and leading us to the path of eternal salvation.

May the prayers of St. John the Baptist, the greatest born of women, accompany us in our spiritual endeavors, and may his radiant example continue to guide us towards the eternal kingdom of our Lord Jesus Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1808 | date:2023-10-12T22:04:22 ---


--- id:1809 | date:2023-10-12T22:04:26 ---
👉🏾 About the #translation of the Ethiopian Orthodox #bible

👉 Question፦ Good evening, is it correct that the first ethiopian bible was translated from greek into ge'ez by the 9 saints who came to Ethiopia around 450 a.d ??

Answer፦ Good morning beloved one,

Indeed, Ethiopia holds a cherished place in the annals of Christian history. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, an ancient and proud Christian community, traces its roots back to the time of the Apostles. The tale of the Nine Saints, holy men from different parts of the Byzantine Empire, is a beloved one in our tradition. While these saints are credited with expanding Christianity in the Ethiopian highlands and establishing monastic traditions, the translation of the entire Bible into Ge'ez is a complex process that occurred over centuries.

However, it is important to note that by the time the Nine Saints arrived, Christianity was already present in Ethiopia, having been introduced even earlier through the conversion of the Ethiopian eunuch mentioned in Acts 8:27-39. The Ethiopian Orthodox Church believes its biblical canon, especially the New Testament, was translated into Ge'ez around the 5th century, with the influence of these saints and other faithful.

Remember the words of St. John Chrysostomos: "The Holy Scriptures were not given to us that we should enclose them in books, but that we should engrave them upon our hearts." How might you inscribe these words of wisdom upon your own heart, and seek deeper understanding in your journey with Christ?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1811 | date:2023-10-12T22:16:35 ---


--- id:1812 | date:2023-10-12T22:16:35 ---


--- id:1813 | date:2023-10-12T22:16:35 ---


--- id:1815 | date:2023-10-12T22:17:39 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." (Matthew 3:2) #repentance 

In the immense and sacred tapestry of the teachings of the Church, the proclamation "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near" stands out as a call to both preparation and transformation. As John Chrysostom might articulate, let us unravel this intricate call:

1. The Incarnate Kingdom – Christ Himself:
   
   At the heart of the Gospel message lies the revelation that the Kingdom of Heaven is Christ. He is the beacon of divine love, the reflection of Heaven on earth. When we say "Kingdom of Heaven," we are essentially gesturing towards Christ, the incarnate God, who walked among us and offered Himself for our salvation. In the Eucharistic mystery, we partake of His body and blood, and thus, draw closer to the kingdom. Christ’s assertion, "I am the bread of life," invites us to partake of this divine sustenance, grounding us in His eternal presence.

   The call to repentance is not a mere turning away from sin, but a profound turning towards Christ. It signifies an invitation to align our desires, hopes, and very beings with Him. As John Chrysostom might say, it is through Christ that we navigate the trials and tribulations of life, for in Him we find solace, strength, and salvation.

2. The Blessed Virgin – The Gateway to the Kingdom:

   The Orthodox faith cherishes the Virgin Mary as a testament to human potential – a beacon showing what humanity can achieve in full alignment with God’s will. She is the Theotokos, the God-bearer, who by her "yes" brought the Savior into our midst.

   It is a profound mystery that the infinite God chose to enter the world through the purity and obedience of the Virgin. She becomes a prototype of the church, a vessel that carries and brings Christ into the world. Our journey towards the kingdom requires us to emulate this Marian disposition – a whole-hearted surrender to God’s will, a willingness to become vessels of divine grace.

3. The Church as a Glimpse of Heaven:

   Christ declared, "My kingdom is not of this world." The Church, in its mystical essence, is a fragment of this heavenly kingdom on earth. She is not merely a human institution but a divine-human organism infused with the life of the risen Christ.

   Through the sacraments of the Church, heaven touches earth. The liturgy is a dance between time and eternity, a moment where we ascend spiritually to partake in the heavenly banquet. The church, adorned by the lives and teachings of the saints, becomes the tangible realization of the Kingdom of Heaven here on earth.

   As John Chrysostom would emphasize, the Church is not merely a place of worship but a living experience of Heaven. It is where we encounter Christ, where we are nurtured, transformed, and prepared for our eternal destiny.

Conclusion:

The cry "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near" is not just a call to remorse but an invitation to transformation. It beckons us towards a life intertwined with Christ, a life marked by love, sacrifice, and hope.

As we journey through life, may we always remember that the Kingdom is not just a distant reality but an intimate presence. Let us, with hearts aflame with love for Christ, heed this call, so that in all things, we may reflect the light of the Kingdom and draw all men towards its radiant glow.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1822 | date:2023-10-14T22:30:25 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Five #Pillar #Mysteries

Dear and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on the John's Repentance page;  Today,  we hereby sent you the following basic religion lesson which we prepared in simple way of discription so that everybody can easily understand it; Hence, we entrust you to read and learn from it.

In Orthodoxy, the Five Pillars of Mysteries are called absolute dogmas. Apostle St. Paul explained that there are five pillars of truth and doctrine of salvation in the church. 1 Cor 14:19

The five pillar mysteries are: -

1. Mystery of Trinity: This is where we learn the unity and trinity of the Holy Trinity. Holy Trinity a special and unique form of Trinity and it means three in One, One in three. 

2. Mystery of Incarnation: This is where we learn the mystery of God becoming human. (God came down to us from the heavens and saved us, he became a man and was born from Mary, this mystery is the mystery of God becoming a man.)

3. Mystery of Baptism: This is where we learn about the baptism of our Lord Jesus Christ and the mystery of being reborn from God through baptism. Therefore, the sacrement of baptism in which we are born of water and the Spirit and receive the sonship of God is called the second birth. In Ephesians chapter four, it is written that baptism is one.

4. Mystery of Eucharistic: It is where we learn about the fact that the Holy Body of Jesus Christ and His Precious Blood are eternal life. Drink my blood and eat my flesh, our Lord Jesus Christ told us in his gospel that we must all receive the Holy Communion in order to have eternal life.

5. The Mystery of Resurrection (Eternal Life): This is where we learn about the second coming (the end of the world) and the resurrection of the dead. We believe in the resurrection of the dead, that when our Lord Jesus Christ comes, we will rise from the dead on the last day.

In the below paragraphs, we will take a closer look to briefly explain about  each of the Five Pillars Mysteries፦

1. Mystery of Trinity

The Mystery of Trinity is the first among the five pillars of mysteries at our Orthodox Church. Because it is the most fundamental of all Christian dogmas; and it is the basis for our salvation.  

It is impossible to comprehend the fundamental teachings of the Holy Bible in the absence of a clear understanding about the Mystery of Holy Trinity. This mystery is part and parcel of each and every spiritual life and service.

The word is derived from a Geez word and it means threeness. This concerns the unity and trinity of the living God. God is one God. In unity, His name is called Creator, Lord, God, etc. In trinity, the name is called the Holy Trinity.

(Part 2, to be continued)👇

--- id:1823 | date:2023-10-14T22:33:02 ---
The Five Pillars Mysteries

1. Mystery of Trinity (Cont'd)

(Part 2 )

Trinity: - One in three, three in one.
We believe in one God. God is one in essence/nature, divinity, power, action, and will. We also believe in three Persons – the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. God is three in Person (Hypostasis), Name, and Deed.  

- The Trinity of names: Father, Son, Holy Spirit (Psalm 32:1, 1 John 5:7, Matthew 28, 19)  The Father is described as the Heart  . The Son is also called the Son of God, His ‘Word’, and 'God with us'. The Holy Spirit is called the ‘life’, or ‘breath’ of God, and God within us. But the three are one. As the Apostle Paul stated it clearly “There is no other God but one” (1 Corinthians 8:4).

- The trinity of Deed-: God the Father's deed is to give birth, parent (Ps 8:2), God the Son's deed is to be born; (from God the Father); Galatians 4:4;  God the Holy Spirit's deed is to move out/proceed (from God the Father) John 16:14 The Father  begets the Son; and gives forth the Holy Spirit. He is the unbegotten and never proceeds/comes out.  The Son's deed is to be born; begotten from God the father. He never begets, never gives forth the Holy Spirit, and never proceeds/comes out from the Father. The Holy Spirit proceeds from the Father. He never begets; is unbegotten,  The three  persons are co-equal, co-eternal and co-substantial.

- The trinity of the person: the Father has a perfect person, a perfect appearance, a perfect form; The Son has a perfect person, a perfect appearance, a perfect form; The Holy Spirit has a perfect person and a perfect appearance. They are three real, concrete and absolutely distinct persons.  Father, Son and Holy Spirit are three entirely distinct modes of existence. The three are not parts of the same person, nor three ways of manifestation to the world. They are undivided, inseparable, and Perfectly united, and God is their name of unity.  "Let us make man according to our likeness" Gen 1:26 "Adam became like one of us" Gen 3:22 is the expression of the physical God in addition to the mystery of the flesh. God is not a physical entity, but an abstract and spiritual entity.

So, trinity is Three in one and One in Three. This doesn't mean three persons who together make one God. Trinity is not three Gods joined together. Trinity is not three properties of God. Our forefathers have stated this as “The Father is God, the Son is God, the Holy Spirit is God. They are called one God but not three Gods.” (Apostolic Athanasius Faith of the Fathers Ch. 24 Part 4 Verse 4). 
Because, although we say the Trinity are three in name, in deed and in person; the three are one in essence, in divinity, in existence and in will; we do not mean three Gods but one God. While the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit exist in their own perfect person, they are one in existence ”  (Abulidis, Faith of the Fathers, Ch. 40 Verse 4:6). St Gregory stated it as “When I say God, I mean Father, Son and Holy Spirit.”  There is no confusion of names and deed in the Trinity. The Holy Trinity thinks with the heart of the Father and speaks with the words of the Son, and by the breath of the Holy Spirit they live. 
 
In the time of the apostles, the Lord said  " baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit." They were baptizing in the name of Jesus but it doesn't mean  they baptized them without calling the Father and the Holy Spirit. In the first Christian era, they did not even accept the teachings of Jesus Christ himself, let alone the preaching of the apostles. "He came to his own people, and his own people did not receive him. But to those who believed and accepted, he gave authority to become children of God. As John 1:9 says, "If they had known the Lord of glory, they would not have crucified him." As it is said, they crucified our Lord, but He rose again after conquering death.1. Mystery of Trinity

(Part 3 to be continued)

May the name of the Holy God be praised today and always

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:1824 | date:2023-10-16T23:00:01 ---


--- id:1825 | date:2023-10-16T23:00:01 ---


--- id:1826 | date:2023-10-16T23:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 St. Abune Guebre Menfes Kidus

Beloved members of John's Repentance page, today is the annual feast of our holy father and hence let us reflect on his life. 

In the annals of spiritual history, few shine as luminously as the blessed St. Abune Guebre Menfes Kidus of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. His life, radiant with divine encounters and steadfast devotion, is a testament to the profound relationship between God and man, revealing a tale of grace, perseverance, and unyielding faith. Let us embark on a journey to understand the celestial narratives of this saint, seeking enlightenment and inspiration in every fold of his story.

From a tender age, Heaven chose him. At merely three years, divine intervention manifested when the messenger of God, Saint Gabriel, spirited the young Guebre to a sanctuary. There, under the tutelage of Father Zemed Berhan, he drank deeply from the fountain of Holy Scriptures, imbibing the wisdom of the Old Testament and the teachings of the Church. His soul was carved, polished, and prepared for a life dedicated to the Divine.

This preparation culminated in his priestly consecration, an anointment that sent him to the arid desert, where solitude and rigorous spiritual discipline became his companions. There, he became an embodiment of asceticism, forsaking even the meagerest worldly comforts, relying solely on the nourishment of prayer and divine communion.

In that desolation, a celestial decree was ordained: Guebre Menfes Kidus would remain hidden from the world, only to be recognized by those who mirrored his sanctity. His existence was not to be an ordinary one; he would soar on chariots of light, converse with the Divine Trinity, and be beckoned to the great land of Ethiopia to liberate souls ensnared by darkness.

The journey was no ordinary one. Accompanied by a heavenly entourage of lions, tigers, and angels led by Saint Gabriel, Guebre Menfes Kidus traveled the ethereal path. But upon witnessing the sins of the Ethiopian people, his heart overflowed with compassion, leading to a self-imposed exile in the sea for forty days and nights. His sacrifice, a testament of love for mankind, resulted in a divine promise: Mercy would shine upon all who invoked his name.

His trials did not end here. Sun and wilderness became his sanctuaries; angels his solace in moments of profound spiritual warfare. From the blinding light of divine mysteries to confronting the demonic forces threatening his very essence, he emerged triumphant through divine intervention, always.

The tale of Guebre Menfes Kidus is not merely a saga of victories but also one of profound humility and boundless love. Even as he displayed divine might before the defiant king of Arabia, he pleaded for the salvation of the very enemies who sought his life. His heart, so attuned to God's love, saw beyond earthly enmities, recognizing the intrinsic worth of every soul.

In the twilight of his life, Guebre Menfes Kidus embraced a final act of supreme asceticism, suspending himself from a cliff for three decades, enduring unimaginable torment. Yet, in his final moments, the Savior Himself appeared, offering eternal blessings to those who would remember this blessed saint.

His life, a beacon spanning 562 years, reminds us of the immense potential within every soul to transcend worldly fetters, seeking the Divine. Through trials, sacrifices, and miracles, St. Abune Guebre Menfes Kidus exemplifies a faith that can move mountains and a love that transcends time.

Let us, the faithful, draw inspiration from his legacy. May we too, with unwavering faith, embark on our own spiritual quests, and in the luminous path of St. Abune Guebre Menfes Kidus, find our way to the Divine embrace. Through his intercession, may the blessings of the Holy Trinity be with us all, now and forever. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1828 | date:2023-10-17T21:31:16 ---


--- id:1829 | date:2023-10-17T21:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Trinity 

Beloved members of John's Repentance service, today is the monthly feast the Holy Trinity. It is a very celebted day in our Church and so we send you this writing so that you may read and partake form the Holy Trinity's blessings. 

The Holy Trinity - a profound mystery, one that confounds the human mind and yet, stands as a beacon of divine revelation. The Trinity, the triune God, is a singular essence manifested in three persons - the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. This, however, should not be confined within the human concept of numbers. The unity is not merely numerical, but a unity of divine essence, an unity of character. The three, then, surpasses the boundaries of numerics to suggest a unique trinity, a unique interconnectedness and interdependence.

God is beyond the comprehension of human mind, beyond the law of numbers. Thus, it is imperative that God Himself reveals the mystery of the Holy Trinity to His creation. The grand revelation - the incarnation of God - stands as a testament to this mystery. It is through the Son of God, Christ, becoming flesh that the eternal Fatherhood and Sonship become recognizable. It is during the baptism of Christ by John the Baptist that the world comes to acknowledge Christ as the eternal Son of God the Father.

The teachings of Christ post His baptism unraveled the divine nature of God the Father. These teachings, in combination with the moral life led by Christ, exhibited the coequality of the Holy Spirit with the Father and the Son. This divine revelation, in the body of Christ, was then passed on to the church, His body on earth. Christ informed us about God the Father, and the church, in her liturgical prayers, affirms this revelation.

The Holy Spirit, a purifying and glorifying life, is the life of the Father and the Son. He is the God who lives within the Father and the Son. During the baptism of Christ, He descended in the form of a dove, teaching us to be baptized in the Holy Spirit as per the Gospel of Matthew (28:19).

The apostle St. John begins his Gospel by affirming the eternal existence of the Word, indicating its unity with the Father and the Holy Spirit - the divine Trinity. He asserts that the Word was first, suggesting the preeminence of the Word, thereby allowing the fathers of the church to interpret the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. As such, the Old Testament is understood as foretelling the New Testament - the incarnation of the Son, who revealed to us His Father, and the Trinity.

When Christ queried His disciples about His identity, Saint Peter responded, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God." (Matthew 16:16). Christ then affirms that this knowledge comes from His Father, and blessed Peter for his testimony. This affirmation from Peter not only confirmed the identity of Christ, but also subtly illuminated the mystery of the Holy Trinity. Peter's words imply that Christ is the living Son of God, sustained by the life of the Holy Spirit - thereby acknowledging the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

The essence of this revelation goes further to highlight the mystery of the Incarnation. Christ, who came in the flesh, was the awaited Messiah as prophesied by the prophets. Thus, St. Peter, through divine revelation, testified to the mystery of the Trinity and the Incarnation in one breath.

This revelation of the unity and trinity of God is evident in His creation and His salvation of the world. The Old Testament foretells God's plan for the salvation of the world, and the Gospel of John reveals the Trinity's involvement in the creation and salvation of the world. It is the same Trinity, who created the world from non-existence, that also saves the world with their unified power when it falls due to wrongdoing. Thus, we come to understand the divine interaction between the Creator and the creation as revealed in the Scriptures. The Trinity's nature, revealed in the eternal life, is also manifest in the salvation of this world.

(Corninies) 👇

--- id:1830 | date:2023-10-17T21:36:02 ---
(Continued)👆🏾

In summary, God is one; God is three - an unfathomable mystery and a profound truth. The unity and trinity of God are essential to understanding His divine nature, His creation, and His salvific action in the world. This understanding requires God's self-revelation, which is manifest in the incarnation of the Son, the teachings of the church, and the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Only through this revelation can we begin to comprehend the depths of the mystery of the Holy Trinity.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1832 | date:2023-10-18T21:30:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Gravity of the Unpardonable #Sin

Our Blessed Savior has proclaimed, "Whosoever shall speak against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him; but whosoever shall speak against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, nor in that which is to come" (Matthew 12:32). Ponder, dear brethren, the profundity of these words. When Our Lord came among the Jews, many reviled Him, yet even these He was willing to absolve. Yet, there lies a transgression so severe that it eludes even the merciful embrace of Christ's redemptive love — blasphemy against the Holy Spirit.

It is not a sin of action or of transient words, but a deep-rooted disposition of the soul, a willful rebellion against the Spirit of Truth. Those ensnared by it not only reject the light, but malign the very source of all illumination.

The weight of this sin is not determined by mere worldly standards of justice — where deeds are weighed, and punishments are apportioned. Nay, this sin tarnishes the very soul, making it averse to divine grace. Even the great King David, for all his righteousness, bore the earthly consequences of his sins. Thus, let it be known, with great sorrow and trepidation, that there exists no sin, save this, that stands beyond the reach of penitential tears.

"What then," you might ask, "does it mean to blaspheme against the Holy Spirit?" It is not merely an insult or an offense as one might offend a fellow man. It is a heart hardened against the divine, a spirit in rebellion, a soul that sees the works of God and decries them as the workings of evil.

The gravity of this transgression is further exemplified by the lamentable fate of Judas Iscariot. Betraying the Son of God, he tasted the bitterness of remorse, but failed to find the solace of true repentance. Rather than returning to the fold, seeking the Lord's mercy, he despaired and took his own life, thus showing the devastating fruits of a soul ensnared by this grievous sin.

But in this grim discourse, let us not lose sight of the infinite mercy of our God. It is not that He refuses forgiveness to those trapped by this sin, but rather that they, in their obstinacy, refuse to seek His mercy. St. Paul, once a fierce persecutor of the Church, stands as a shining beacon of hope. Though he acted in ignorance, once he encountered the Risen Lord, he embraced grace with fervor. Thus, it is not mere transgression but willful persistence in error, even in the face of Truth, that characterizes the sin against the Holy Spirit.

Let the tragic fate of the Pharisees serve as a cautionary tale. Recognizing the divine works of Christ, they yet attributed them to Beelzebub, thus showing their souls' alienation from the divine light. Unlike demons who recognized Jesus as the "Holy One of God" (Mark 1:24), these men's hearts were so hardened that they could no longer discern the divine.

In conclusion, dear brethren, let us pray fervently that our hearts remain ever open to the promptings of the Holy Spirit, that we may never find ourselves so far adrift that we mistake the divine for the diabolic. Let us strive always to remain humble, penitent, and ever watchful against the snares of the enemy, seeking always the grace and mercy of our loving God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1834 | date:2023-10-20T21:45:01 ---


--- id:1835 | date:2023-10-20T21:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the mystery of the #Eucharist  

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about the sacrement of the Eucharist so that you read, understand and participate in this foundational mystery of the Church.

👉 Institution of the Sacrament

Our Lord instituted this Sacrament on Covenant Thursday, just a few hours before His arrest and trial. After He had washed the feet of the disciples as a sign of their repentance and preparation, “He took bread, blessed it and broke it, and gave it to the disciples and said, ‘Take, eat; this is My body.’ Then He took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, ‘Drink from it all of you. For this is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins’” (Mt 26:26-28) St. Paul said, “The Lord Jesus on the same night in which He was betrayed took bread; and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, ‘Take, eat; this is My body which is broken for you; do this in remembrance of Me.’ In the same manner He also took the cup after supper, saying, ‘This cup is the new covenant in My blood. This do, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me.’ For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death till He comes” (1 Cor 11:23-26)

👉 Symbols of the Eucharist in the Old Testament

The offering of Melchizedek (bread & wine) was a symbol of this Holy Sacrament, “Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine; he was the priest of God Most High” (Gen 14:18). This is the first verse in Holy Scripture where the word “priest” was used and it is interesting to notice the connection between the priesthood of Melchizedek and the offering of bread and wine. Therefore, it was said about our Lord, “You are a priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek” (Ps 110:4; Heb 5:6)

The Passover lamb that the children of Israel offered on the night of their exodus from Egypt, and which they used to offer every year thereafter was a symbol of this Sacrament “For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us” (1 Cor 5:7)

The manna that the children of Israel ate in the wilderness of Sinai for forty years was a symbol of the Sacrament of Eucharist. Our Lord said, “This is the bread which came down from heaven – not as your fathers ate the manna, and are dead. He who eats this bread will live forever” (Jn 6:58) – “I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever and the bread that I shall give is My flesh” (Jn 6:51)

👉 The Question of the Real Presence

Our Lord spoke about this Sacrament openly to the Jews but they “quarreled among themselves saying, ‘How can this Man give us His flesh to eat?’” (Jn 6:52).

Moreover, many of the disciples protested saying, “This is a hard saying; who can understand it?” (Jn 6:60). When Lord Jesus explicitly emphasized His real presence in the Sacrament, it was written, “many of His disciples went back and walked with Him no more” (Jn 6:66)

The question of the real presence is of considerable importance in relation to the differences, which have emerged within Christianity since the time of the so-called ‘Reformation’. A particularly important witness to the early Christian understanding of this Sacrament is provided by the ‘Catechetical lectures’ of St. Cyril of Jerusalem. This series of 24 lectures of instruction on the beliefs and practices of the Christian Church, given at some point around 350 AD to those preparing for baptism, are an important witness to the ideas that prevailed in the Jerusalem Church around this point. It is clear that St. Cyril regarded the bread and wine as becoming the real body and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ:

Continued 👇

--- id:1836 | date:2023-10-20T21:48:01 ---
Continued 👆

“[Jesus Christ], by his own will, once changed water into wine at Cana of Galilee. So why should we not believe that he can change wine into blood? … We should therefore have full assurance that we are sharing in the body and blood of Christ. For in the type of bread, his body is given to you, and in the type of wine, his blood is given to you, so that by partaking of the body and blood of Christ you may become of one body and one blood with Him.” (St. Cyril of Jerusalem)

St. John of Damascus wrote the following about the question of how this transformation of the bread and wine takes place:

“And now you ask how the bread becomes the body of Christ, and the wine and the water become the blood of Christ. I shall tell you. The Holy Spirit comes upon them, and achieves things which surpass every word and thought … Let it be enough for you to understand that this takes place by the Holy Spirit” (St. John of Damascus).

👉 Benefits of the Sacrament

Abiding in Lord Jesus Christ: “He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him” (Jn 6:56). Consequently we bear the fruits of the spirit, “He who abides in Me, and I in him, bears much fruit; for without Me you can do nothing” (Jn 15:5)

Obtaining Eternal Life: “Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day… He who eats this bread will live forever” (Jn 6:54,58)

Growth & Maintenance of Our Spiritual Life: “Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you… For My flesh is food indeed, and My blood is drink indeed… he who feeds on Me will live because of Me” (Jn 6:53,55,57)

Salvation & Remission of Sins: “This is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the remission of sins” (Mt 26:28)

Unification of Believers: “For we, being many, are one bread and one body; for we all partake of that one bread” (1 Cor 10:17)

👉 Consequences of Unworthy Communion

St. Paul said, “Whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread and drink of that cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning (recognizing clearly) the Lord’s body. For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep (die). For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged.” (1 Cor 11:27-31)

Continued 👇

--- id:1837 | date:2023-10-20T21:51:02 ---
👉 The Meaning of Worthiness

Orthodox Faith: The person who approaches the Eucharist must be an Orthodox Christian having no doubt concerning the bread & wine being the true body and precious blood of Lord Jesus Christ.

Repentance & Confession: The person must be practicing the Sacrament of Repentance and Confession on regular basis as St. Paul said, “let a man examine himself” (1 Cor 11:28)

Reconciliation With Others: Lord Jesus Christ said, “If you bring your gift to the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar, and go your way. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come offer your gift” (Mt 5:23-24)

True Worthiness is Feeling Unworthy: St. Paul, the meek and humble apostle said, “I know nothing against myself, yet I am not justified by this” (1 Cor 4:4)

Obeying The Church Rules: concerning food abstinence before communion, physical cleanliness, and early attendance of the liturgy.

👉 The Eucharist as a Sacrifice

The Orthodox Church believes and confesses that the Eucharist is a sacrifice and an offering to God in addition to being a Sacrament. The following supports this belief:

The words of Lord Jesus Christ Himself, “This is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many” (Mt 26:28; Mk 14:24) – “This cup is the new covenant in My blood, which is shed for you” (Lk 22:20) – “This is My body which is broken for you” (1 Cor 11:24) – “This is My body which is given for you” (Lk 22:19). Undoubtedly, the terms “broken body” and “shed blood” refer to a sacrifice.

The presence of an altar in the Church confirms that the Eucharist is a sacrifice. St. Paul said, “We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle (Jews) have no right to eat” (Heb 13:10). Isaiah the Prophet said, “In that day there will be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt” (Is 19:19), this is a specific prophecy about the Coptic (Egyptian) Church which proves the presence of altars in the Christian era and consequently the presence of a sacrifice (the Eucharist).

Malachi the Prophet prophesied about the New Testament offering saying, “I have no pleasure in you, says the Lord of hosts, nor will I accept an offering from your hands. For from the rising of the sun even to its going down, My name shall be great among the Gentiles; In every place incense shall be offered to My name, and a pure offering; For My name shall be great among the nations, says the Lord of hosts” (Mal 1:10-11). This “pure offering” is nothing but the Eucharistic offering that Christians offer on their altars, for at which point in history did the Gentiles “in every place” offer an offering to the Lord?

St. Paul said, “Observe Israel after the flesh: Are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? What am I saying then? That an idol is anything, or what is offered to idol is anything (else)? Rather, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice they sacrifice to demons and not to God, and I do not want you to have fellowship with demons. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the Lord’s table and the table of demons” (1 Cor 10:18-21). The apostle is comparing the table (altar) of the Lord to the altar of the pagans upon which unacceptable demonic sacrifices were offered, which proves that the Eucharist that is offered on the Christian altar is indeed a sacrifice.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1839 | date:2023-10-22T22:01:50 ---


--- id:1840 | date:2023-10-22T22:01:50 ---


--- id:1841 | date:2023-10-22T22:01:50 ---


--- id:1842 | date:2023-10-22T22:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Archangel St. #Michael 

Beloved members of John's Repentance service, today is the monthly feast the St. Michael. Hence we send you this writing so you may read and partake form the Archangel's blessings. 

The Archangel St. Michael is highly revered in the Orthodox Church, celebrated for his dedicated service to God and his pivotal role as a protector, intercessor, and warrior against the forces of evil. His presence in biblical narratives and miraculous interventions mark him as a significant figure not just in the spiritual realm, but also in the lives of the faithful.

St. Michael, whose name means “Who is like God”, is the leader of the heavenly hosts and always stands before God's throne, advocating for humanity. This idea is reinforced in the Book of Joshua, where St. Michael appears as the commander of the Lord's army, showing his leadership and divine authority. His steadfast support of the saints and martyrs, offering strength and resilience, further showcases his commitment to God's people.

The church celebrates his feast on the 12th of each month, with two major feasts held on the 12th of Hator/Hidär (November 21st) and on the 12th of Paona/Sëné (June 19th). Celebrating St. Michael through these feasts is a testament to his influence and importance. Traditional practices such as offering alms and holding festivals in his name serve to honor and remember him, reflecting the deeply ingrained respect and love for St. Michael among the faithful.

Miracles are often associated with St. Michael, reinforcing his role as an active, divine participant in human affairs. The story of Dorotheus and Theopista provides a powerful example of this, as St. Michael aids this pious family in their time of need, miraculously providing for them as they honor him with a feast.

The Archangel Michael is often depicted in church iconography in a soldier's attire, symbolizing his role as the commander of the heavenly army. The spear he holds signifies his victory over Satan, as described in the book of Revelation, where he triumphs in the war in heaven, expelling the devil.

St. Michael is also recognized as the angel of the Resurrection, as cited in the Gospel of Matthew. His protective role extends to entire communities, where he is considered the guardian of monasteries, with many churches worldwide built in his honor. His widespread veneration is also reflected in the many people named after him, demonstrating the depth of his impact on the faithful.

St. Michael's humility, despite his grandeur, is evident in the epistle of Jude, where he disputes with the devil over Moses' body, showing restraint and respect for divine authority. He is also known to assist other archangels, such as Gabriel, in their missions.

Finally, as we celebrate the Annual Feast of Archangel Saint Michael, we are reminded of his role in leading the Israelites out of Egypt and guiding them through their journey, as described in the book of Exodus. He is revered as a protector and intercessor, helping those enslaved by sin, advocating for love, harmony, and peace among the faithful. 

To incorporate these lessons into our lives, we are encouraged to emulate St. Michael's humility, strength, and unwavering loyalty to God. Just as he intercedes for humanity, we too should advocate for one another in love and solidarity. And just as he battles the forces of evil, we should strive to resist sin and promote peace and harmony in our lives. As we honor St. Michael, we can draw inspiration from his divine example and aspire to reflect these virtues in our own lives.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1849 | date:2023-10-23T22:42:54 ---


--- id:1850 | date:2023-10-23T22:43:09 ---


--- id:1851 | date:2023-10-23T22:43:16 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Sublime Nature of #Creation

👉🏾 The Quadruple Essence

On the sacred Sabbath, in preparation for the Lord’s Day, the Almighty, in His infinite wisdom and power, brought forth into being seven distinct entities. Amongst these were the four cardinal qualities, the celestial realms, the angelic hosts, and the enigmatic darkness. He who is ineffable declared, “In My divine nature are these four qualities,” and thus, He wove the fabric of existence.

The four cardinal qualities, reflections of the Divine Nature, are as follows:

1. Potency: The Almighty, in His omnipotence, created fire. Fire, a manifestation of power, holds the capacity to consume both the mighty and the meek, the righteous and the wicked. Yet, God, in His merciful judgment, is slow to anger and abounds in steadfast love (Psalm 103:8).

2. Liberation: The Creator, in His freedom, fashioned the winds. The winds, embodying liberation, serve to separate the wheat from the chaff, as depicted in the teachings of our Lord (Matthew 3:12).

3. Purity: The Divine Artisan, in His immaculate purity, called forth water. Water, a symbol of cleansing, purifies and sanctifies, just as we are cleansed in the sacred waters of baptism.

4. Abundance: The Bountiful Giver of Life, in His richness, brought forth the earth. The earth, a vessel of abundance, sustains and nourishes all of creation.

👉🏾 The Interplay of the Qualities

These four cardinal qualities, by the Divine decree, interact in a sublime dance, governed by the will of the Almighty. Fire may conquer water, yet water quenches fire. Wind scatters the earth, while the earth confines the wind. In this divine choreography, balance and harmony prevail.

To reconcile these forces, the Creator endowed them with specific attributes:

1. Fire: luminosity, heat, and aridity.
2. Wind: warmth, coldness, and mobility.
3. Water: brilliance, wetness, and coolness.
4. Earth: dryness, solidity, and coolness.

In this celestial equilibrium, the Almighty wove the tapestry of creation, harmonizing these qualities in a symphony of existence.

👉🏾 Part II: The Celestial Realms

The Ascension to the Heavens

Having established the foundational qualities of creation, the Divine Architect turned His gaze to the heavens. In a vision reminiscent of the Prophet Isaiah, we perceive the Lord, seated on His majestic throne, His glory filling the celestial expanse (Isaiah 6:1).

 The Creation of the Heavens

1. The First Heaven: Out of the primordial fire, God crafted the first heaven, a realm of divine splendor, enveloping creation.

2. The Second Heaven: The Almighty, in His creative prowess, sculpted the second heaven, a sanctuary for the righteous and the martyrs.

3. The Third Heaven: From the celestial fire, God shaped the third heaven, a realm beyond comprehension, sealed with His divine mystery.

These heavens, sublime in their grandeur, are a testament to the infinite nature of God, a realm where angels dwell in perpetual adoration.

👉🏾 The Heavenly Jerusalem

In the culminating act of creation, God envisioned the Heavenly Jerusalem, a city of unparalleled splendor, reserved for those who love Him (1 Corinthians 2:9). Here, the saints and martyrs find their eternal rest, surrounded by the brilliance of divine light.

👉🏾 The Angelic Creation

Having woven the tapestry of the cosmos and the celestial realms, the Creator, in His boundless love and wisdom, brought forth the angelic hosts, divine messengers, and guardians of creation. In their celestial hymns, they proclaim the glory of God, participating in the divine dance of creation.

(Continues) 

Let us, therefore, beloved brethren, contemplate the profound mystery of creation, embracing the divine wisdom that permeates the cosmos. In doing so, we draw nearer to the Almighty, the Source of all being, and find our place in the celestial harmony of existence.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
 https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1855 | date:2023-10-24T22:00:01 ---


--- id:1856 | date:2023-10-24T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About our father #Abune #Aregawi 

Oh beloved in Christ, children of the holy Orthodox Church, today we gather in spirit and truth to delve into the life of a great saint, Abune Aregawi, whose ascetic life and divine struggles transcend time and space, nourishing our souls and kindling the flame of divine love within our hearts.

Abune Aregawi, a spiritual luminary of the 5th century, was born in the imperial city of Rome, under the protective wings of his parents, Isaac, a king of noble stature, and Adhana, a queen of pious heart. His birth name was Zemikael, a name that foretold his celestial journey towards the heavenly kingdom.

From his youth, Zemikael exhibited an insatiable hunger for divine wisdom, dedicating himself to the study of the Holy Scriptures and the lives of the saints. At the tender age of 14, the world laid before him its earthly treasures and royal betrothals, yet his heart yearned not for temporal glory but for the eternal. He renounced the world and entered the sacred grounds of the Daunas monastery in Tsyre, where he was clothed in the angelic habit and embraced monastic life with fervor.

In the divine providence of God, Abba Pakoumis, the abbot of the monastery, discerned the heavenly calling upon Zemikael and ordained him a monk, setting him on the path of ascetic struggle and divine contemplation.

His zeal for Christ was contagious, and soon, seven of his kin, ignited by the same celestial fire, joined him in monastic life. Together, they embarked on a journey of ascetic labor, emulating the good shepherd who tends to his flock with unwavering care and love.

However, the news of Zemikael’s renunciation reached the ears of his mother, Queen Adhana, whose heart was pierced with both sorrow and awe. She journeyed to see her son, now Abune Aregawi, a name that signifies his spiritual ascent. Though he initially resisted her visit, her maternal plea struck a chord within him. She implored, "My son, what is the world that you despised in your childhood of use to me?” Overwhelmed by her faith, Abune Aregawi welcomed her into the monastic fold, placing her under the care of the holy nuns.

In due course, the call of the divine led Abune Aregawi and his brethren to the sacred lands of Ethiopia, a nation steadfast in faith and untainted by apostasy. Carried by the wings of Saint Michael the Archangel, they set foot in Axum, fulfilling the divine prophecy and enriching the spiritual tapestry of the Ethiopian Church.

Yet, the solitude of the desert called out to Abune Aregawi, urging him to seek the hermit’s life and immerse himself in uninterrupted contemplation. He parted ways with his brethren, each finding solace in solitary prayer and divine labor.

Abune Aregawi, guided by divine grace, reached the summit of Debre Damo, a sanctuary suspended between heaven and earth. Here, he battled the forces of darkness, his faith unwavering, his heart aflame with divine love. The devil, envious of his sanctity, sought to tempt him, yet Abune Aregawi, armed with the sword of faith, vanquished the foe, turning the beast into a vessel of divine ascent.

For years, he subsisted on heavenly manna, his body sustained by divine grace, his soul aflame with unceasing prayer. He became a beacon of sanctity, drawing thousands to the monastic life, guiding them on the path of salvation.

As his earthly sojourn neared its end, the Lord appeared to him, bestowing upon him the crown of righteousness and assuring him of his heavenly inheritance. Abune Aregawi, having fought the good fight, having kept the faith, entrusted his flock to worthy successors and entered into the joy of his Master.

Dear brethren in Christ, the life of Abune Aregawi stands as a testament to the transformative power of divine grace and the unfathomable depths of ascetic struggle. He renounced the world, yet gained the kingdom of heaven. He embraced solitude, yet became a father to thousands. He battled the forces of darkness, yet shone with the uncreated light.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:1857 | date:2023-10-24T22:06:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

Let us, therefore, beseech his holy intercessions, that we too may be granted the strength to renounce the world, the courage to embrace the ascetic struggle, and the grace to attain the heavenly kingdom. May his life inspire us to seek the things above, to live in accordance with the Gospel, and to become partakers of the divine nature.

As we commemorate his holy memory, let us exclaim with joy, “O holy Abune Aregawi, pray to God for us, that He may save our souls!”

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1861 | date:2023-10-25T22:02:31 ---


--- id:1862 | date:2023-10-25T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Virtue of #Humility

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we shall delve into the profound depths of this divine quality, which stands as a pillar of Christian life, drawing inspiration from a dialogue between a novice monk and an experienced ascetic, whose wisdom has transcended the bounds of language and culture, originating from the venerable Amharic tradition.

What, then, is humility? It is not merely a word to be tossed lightly in our daily discourse but a state of being, a disposition of the soul that aligns itself with the divine will. The errant monk, wise in his years and rich in experience, defines humility as the ability to render good unto those who have wronged us, echoing the divine exhortation of our Lord in the Gospel according to Matthew (6:42). It is a call to transcend our earthly inclinations, to rise above the pettiness of retribution and embrace the luminosity of divine love.

The path of humility is strewn with silence and suffering, for these are the currencies of the spiritual realm. The monk implores us to cherish silence in our endeavors, for in silence, we find the sanctuary of inner peace and divine communion. Furthermore, he teaches that trouble and sorrow are the monk's treasure, for through them, we crucify the flesh and partake in the divine nature.

In the crucible of suffering, the soul is refined, and the true mettle of humility is revealed. It is not enough to merely proclaim, 'I am a sinner'; one must internalize this confession, allowing it to transform the very fabric of our being. To know oneself as a sinner is to stand naked before God, stripped of pride and pretension, ready to receive the healing balm of divine mercy. The noblest of souls are those who labor tirelessly, trusting not in their own righteousness but in the boundless mercy of God.

The way of God is the way of humility, and to walk this path is to become a servant of the divine will, submitting our thoughts and desires to the scrutiny of our spiritual fathers and mothers. In every endeavor, be it noble or ignoble, we must relinquish our attachment to the outcomes, trusting solely in the providence of God.

Pride, that insidious foe of the soul, finds no refuge in the heart that embraces humility. To recognize the impurity of our thoughts and the weakness of our flesh is the beginning of wisdom. With a contrite heart and a spirit of humility, we navigate the treacherous waters of spiritual warfare, ever vigilant against the subtleties of pride and vainglory.

The monk exhorts us to be wary of self-deception, reminding us that the struggle against sin is a lifelong endeavor. We must not take pride in our struggles, lest we fall into the trap of self-righteousness. The true mark of humility is a heart cleansed of impure thoughts, a soul aligned with the divine will.

To labor in humility is to engage in the unceasing battle for the sanctity of our soul, fortified by the armor of divine grace. The service of the flesh, devoid of humility, leads to ruin and despair, for it is rooted in pride and arrogance. But the soul that dons the mantle of humility emerges victorious, transcending the limitations of the flesh and partaking in the divine nature.

In conclusion, beloved, let us embrace the virtue of humility with fervor and zeal, recognizing it as the gateway to divine communion and the harbinger of inner peace. May our hearts be ever contrite, our spirits ever humble, as we journey forth in the service of the Most High, adorned in the radiant garb of humility, to the glory of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, now and forever, unto the ages of ages. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1864 | date:2023-10-26T21:59:22 ---


--- id:1865 | date:2023-10-26T21:59:22 ---


--- id:1866 | date:2023-10-26T21:59:22 ---


--- id:1867 | date:2023-10-26T22:09:39 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Our #Lady, the #covenant of #peace 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, as we commemorate the monthly feast of our lady, the covenant of peace, let us delve into the profound mysteries and sublime truths concerning our Lady from the venerable tradition of the Orthodox Church, drawing inspiration from the revered "June Golgotha” (ሰኔ ጎልጎታ) prayer.

Our Lady, the Blessed Virgin Mary, stands as a luminous beacon in the economy of our salvation, holding a place of unparalleled honor and veneration in the bosom of the Church. She is the Ark of the New Covenant, the vessel through which the Word became flesh, and the bridge connecting heaven and earth. In her humility, purity, and unfathomable obedience to the divine will, she has become the Covenant of Peace, ushering in the Prince of Peace into our midst.

In the prayer of "June Golgotha", we delve into the profound mystery of the Incarnation, contemplating the divine and human natures of Christ, and beholding the pivotal role of our Lady in this salvific event. Here, she stands at the tomb of our Lord, engaging in a dialogue of celestial magnitude, revealing the depths of her understanding of the divine plan and her unwavering faith in her Son and God.

Our Lady speaks of the ineffable mystery of the Incarnation, acknowledging the divine nature of Christ, and His pre-existence with the Father and the Holy Spirit. She confesses Him as the Creator of all, the Sustainer of the universe, and the Lord of hosts, before whom even the angelic powers tremble. Yet, in an act of incomprehensible condescension, He chose to be born of her, taking flesh and dwelling among us.

In this divine economy, our Lady becomes the mediator between God and man, the ladder upon which the divine descends to the human, and the human is raised to the divine. She is the peaceful harbor in the storm of life, the refuge of sinners, and the advocate for our souls. By her intercessions, she brings our supplications before the throne of her Son, imploring His mercy and grace upon us.

The "June Golgotha" prayer illumines the path of our understanding, guiding us through the mysteries of faith, and unveiling the treasures of wisdom hidden within the Orthodox tradition. In it, we find a call to reverence, a summons to contemplation, and an invitation to partake in the divine life.

Our Lady, the Covenant of Peace, stands as a testament to the transformative power of divine grace, calling us to emulate her virtues, to live in accordance with the divine will, and to seek refuge under her maternal mantle. She is the star guiding us through the tumultuous seas of life, leading us to the safe harbor of the kingdom of heaven.

In conclusion, beloved in Christ, let us turn our gaze towards our Lady, the Covenant of Peace, seeking her intercessions and emulating her virtues. Let us delve into the depths of the "June Golgotha" prayer, drawing wisdom and illumination from its sacred words. And let us, with one heart and one voice, glorify the Triune God – Father, Son, and Holy Spirit – now and forever, unto the ages of ages. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1873 | date:2023-10-27T21:15:07 ---


--- id:1874 | date:2023-10-27T21:18:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson about St. #Steven the first Martyr. 

Dear members of John's Repentance page, today we commemorate the memory of our holy forefather in faith, St. Stephen, the Protomartyr. His tale has been preserved in the pages of ecclesiastical history and given to us as a beacon of unwavering faith, fearless proclamation, and ultimately, martyrdom.

The name Stephen, originating from the Greek "Στέφανος" (Stephanos), means "crown" or "garland," a fitting epithet for the first among those who earned the crown of martyrdom in the nascent Church. He was the inaugural martyr, laying down his life for Christ after His Ascension, and hence, he carries the title of "Protomartyr."

The history of Stephen, as delineated in the Acts of the Apostles (6:1-15), is a testament to the power of faith and obedience to God. As the Christian community in Jerusalem began to grow, it became increasingly challenging for the Apostles to attend to all their duties. In response, they selected seven men of good repute, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, to assist in serving the needs of the community, particularly in the administration of aid to the needy. Among these, Stephen stood preeminent.

Stephen, adorned with the grace of the Holy Spirit, served the Church not only through his diaconal duties but also through his spirited proclamation of Christ's teachings. His devotion and eloquence were remarkable to such a degree that his detractors could not counter his words and resorted to malevolent subterfuge. Accused of blasphemy against Moses and God, Stephen was brought before the Sanhedrin, the Jewish council.

Before the council, Stephen offered a fervent defense of his faith, narrating the history of God's covenant with Israel and boldly criticizing their intransigence and infidelity to the covenant. "You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you," he declared (Acts 7:51). His indictment of their rejection of Jesus, whom Stephen avowed to be the promised Messiah, enraged the council.

In the face of their fury, Stephen, his face radiant like that of an angel, looked steadfastly into heaven and beheld a vision of the glorified Christ at the right hand of God. Sharing this vision with those present, he said, "Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God" (Acts 7:56). His words, interpreted as blasphemy, sealed his fate. He was dragged out of the city and stoned to death.

Yet, even in the throes of this brutal execution, Stephen emulated the mercy of Christ, imploring, "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." His last breath was a prayer for his executioners, embodying Christ's teaching to love our enemies.

In this martyrdom, a significant figure observed: Saul of Tarsus, who later became Paul the Apostle, held the garments of those who stoned Stephen. His witnessing of Stephen's steadfast faith and unyielding love might have sown the seeds of his own conversion.

Stephen's life and martyrdom serve as an enduring lesson for us. His unyielding faith, courage in the face of persecution, and love even for his persecutors are the standards that we, as followers of Christ, are called to emulate. His story is not only a historical account but also a spiritual roadmap for each of us, pointing the way to a life of deep faith, bold witness, and sacrificial love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1883 | date:2023-10-29T22:00:02 ---


--- id:1884 | date:2023-10-29T22:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the angel #Gabriel and the hood news he delivered to our Lady the Virgin #Mary. 

Beloved members, as we commemorate this great angel today, let us delve into the depths of the mystery of the Annunciation, wherein the Archangel Gabriel, the herald of good tidings, was sent unto the Virgin Mary to proclaim unto her the ineffable conception of our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ.

First and foremost, we must cast our minds unto the time and place where this divine event occurred. The Virgin Mary, a maiden pure and undefiled, found herself within the abode of the elderly Joseph. There, in the quietude of her daily toils, she was visited by the heavenly messenger. It is of paramount importance that we understand the nature of this encounter; the Archangel Gabriel, a celestial being of the highest order, was sent by God Himself to bring forth a message of salvation and grace.

The Archangel appeared unto Mary not once, but thrice. This thrice-fold appearance is a divine mystery, and it is laden with profound spiritual significance. The first appearance served as a test, to discern whether Mary was indeed the chosen vessel of God’s grace. The second appearance was a revelation, wherein Gabriel unveiled to Mary the divine plan of God. And the third appearance, oh brethren, was the culmination of God’s promise, as Gabriel proclaimed unto Mary that she would bear the Son of God, and His kingdom shall have no end.

Saint Demetrius of Antioch, in his divine wisdom, has eloquently described the instructions given unto Gabriel: "Speak unto her with gentleness and joy, for she is but a tender maiden and cannot bear the weight of fear." Gabriel was to approach Mary not as a harbinger of doom, but as a bearer of good tidings, as one who brings forth the light of God’s glory.

Saint Ephraim the Syrian, a luminary of our faith, attests that Gabriel appeared unto Mary in a form that was both ancient and angelic, luminous and divine. This appearance was calculated to inspire awe and reverence, yet also to convey the gravity of the message he bore. For Mary was chosen by God to be the tabernacle of the Most High, the Ark of the New Covenant, and thus, Gabriel approached her with the utmost reverence and humility.

As we ponder upon this divine encounter, let us reflect upon the words of Gabriel unto Mary: "Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you; blessed are you among women!" (Luke 1:28). Herein lies the crux of the message: Mary was chosen not by virtue of her own merits, but by the grace of God. She was to become the Mother of God, the Theotokos, and through her, salvation was to come forth into the world.

Brethren, let us also reflect upon the response of Mary to this divine message. She was troubled at the saying of Gabriel, and pondered what manner of greeting this might be. Yet, in her humility and obedience, she submitted herself unto the will of God, saying, "Behold the maidservant of the Lord! Let it be to me according to your word" (Luke 1:38). In this act of submission, Mary becomes for us a model of humility and obedience, showing us the way to truly receive the grace of God.

Saint Gabriel, the herald of good tidings, was chosen for this divine mission because of his steadfastness in the face of adversity, and because of the profound mystery contained within his very name, which signifies "God is my strength." He, who stands in the presence of God, was sent to prepare the way for the Lord, fulfilling the prophecies of old, and making straight the path for the salvation of mankind.

In conclusion, brethren, let us take to heart the lessons of the Annunciation, and let us strive to emulate the virtues of the Virgin Mary, that we too might become worthy vessels of God’s grace. May the intercessions of Saint Gabriel and the Theotokos be with us all, guiding us on the path of salvation, and leading us into the everlasting kingdom of God. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

© John's Repentance https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1886 | date:2023-10-30T22:31:25 ---
👉🏾 About #marriage and the #Holy #Eucharist

Question፦ To begin, if a person is married, must they constantly attend Holy Communion with their spouse?  Because my mother really wants to partake in holy communion and has already confessed her sins when we went to Ethiopia and she did timket, but my father doesn't go to church and only follows church services from home, is it possible for my mother to take Kurban without my father or do they have to do it together because she really wants to partake in holy communion (they are married)?  

Answer፦ The question is regarding a husband and wife who are living together but are not united in their spiritual life. One of them wants to partake of Holy Communion but the other is not attending church regularly.

The first issue is that the penance fathers have not provided adequate guidance and discipline to the couple to help them walk together in their spiritual journey. This is a problem that affects many faithful believers and is a failure on the part of the penance fathers. They should show the right path and teach the way so that people can live by the teachings of the Church.  

Secondly, couples must start their marriage with a focus on their spiritual life rather than solely on material wealth and property. They should not be driven by materialistic desires, but rather by their faith. Even if they give tithes or attend church, it should not be out of obligation but rather out of love for God. It is important to seek God's kingdom and righteousness first, and all other things will be added.

Regarding the question of whether the wife can receive Holy Communion alone, the answer is no. As long as they are living together and sharing a bed, one cannot receive Holy Communion alone. If the man is not able to adjust his position and come back to the faith, and if they have exhausted all efforts to reconcile, the woman may choose to separate and receive Holy Communion alone. However, it is important to try to keep the couple together and give them advice so that they can be together until the end.

The couple should seek guidance from elders and penance fathers to avoid any unwanted issues in their relationship that may lead to separation. The father is not going to church because he lacks a Christian education but not because he hates salvation, so it is important to involve responsible fathers in this process so they can pull him into the church using the wisdom that has been given to them. 

In conclusion, it is important to prioritize one's spiritual life and seek guidance from penance fathers to walk together with one's spouse. Holy Communion entails unity in flesh and should only be received together as a couple. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1890 | date:2023-10-31T22:01:34 ---


--- id:1891 | date:2023-10-31T22:04:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About one of the #miracles performed by the Virgin #Mary on this day. 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, on this most hallowed day, we gather in holy reverence to celebrate the feats and miracles of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Our Lady, the Theotokos, and we turn our gaze towards the narrative of the Apostle Matthias, as well as the commemoration of other venerable saints.

Let us, therefore, commence our discourse in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, our Triune God, unto whom be all glory and honor.

On this day, the 31st day of October, we commemorate the miraculous deeds of the Virgin Mary in delivering the Apostle Matthias from the darkened pit of imprisonment, amidst a land of savages and cannibals. Lo! How wondrous are the ways of the Lord, and how benevolent is the intercession of the Theotokos on behalf of those who serve the Gospel with fervor and devotion.

The Apostle Matthias, having been chosen by lot to preach the Good News to the ends of the earth, found himself in a barbarous land named Askutes, believed by the chroniclers of the Church to be Russia. The custom of this people was vile and horrendous; they would blind the eyes of strangers, imprison them, and, after thirty days, cruelly slaughter them to partake of their flesh.

Brethren, imagine the desolation of the Apostle, his eyes taken from him, languishing in prison, his heart crying out to the Lord and His Blessed Mother for deliverance. And lo! The mercies of the Lord are never far from His faithful servants. Before the thirtieth day came to pass, the Virgin Mary, in her boundless compassion, sent the Apostle Andrew to the rescue of Matthias.

Andrew, by the grace of God and the intercession of the Theotokos, entered the prison miraculously, restoring sight to Matthias and leading him out of captivity. With divine might, they caused water to flow from the prison’s very foundation, flooding the land and bringing the barbarians to the brink of destruction.

In that moment of divine retribution, the apostles appeared before them, preaching the Gospel of salvation, revealing the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven, and calling them to repentance and faith in our Lord. By the prayers of the Theotokos, they turned away from their brutish ways, were baptized in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, and became gentle, sincere, and compassionate.

So, brethren, let us take heed of this wondrous tale, let us venerate the Theotokos, for she is a fervent intercessor and a steadfast protector of all who call upon her name with faith and love. Let her prayers be a fortress for us, guiding us in the path of righteousness, and leading us to the Heavenly Kingdom.

May the blessings of the Theotokos be upon us all, and may her intercessions guide us in the path of salvation. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1894 | date:2023-11-01T22:00:12 ---


--- id:1895 | date:2023-11-01T22:00:12 ---


--- id:1896 | date:2023-11-01T22:00:12 ---


--- id:1897 | date:2023-11-01T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the #divinity of #Jesus #Christ 

Beloved members of John's Repentance, When we speak of the divinity of Christ, we tread upon holy ground, for this is a matter of utmost importance and profound mystery. It is not a doctrine that is grasped by the intellect alone, but rather, it is understood through the heart, in the light of divine revelation and with the guidance of the Holy Spirit.

The heretics and the reformers, in their limited understanding and their departure from the true faith, have put forth the notion that Jesus Christ is merely a mediator, a bridge between God and man. But let us refute this false teaching with the words of the Scriptures and the teachings of the Church Fathers.

In the Gospel according to John, Jesus speaks clearly of His divine nature. He declares, “I and the Father are one” (John 10:30). These words are not the words of a mere mediator or prophet. These are the words of God Himself, speaking in the flesh. And when the Jews took up stones to stone Him, accusing Him of blasphemy, He responded, “Do you say of Him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’?” (John 10:36).

The Apostle Paul, in his letter to the Philippians, speaks of Christ’s divine nature, saying, “Though He was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied Himself, by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men” (Philippians 2:6-7). Here, we see that Christ, though He is God, took on human flesh, humbling Himself for our sake.

Christ came into the world not to be served, but to serve, and to give His life as a ransom for many (Matthew 20:28). He is the Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world (John 1:29). He is the Good Shepherd, who lays down His life for the sheep (John 10:11). And by His death and resurrection, He has trampled down death, and has opened to us the gates of paradise.

Furthermore, the miracles of Christ attest to His divinity. He healed the sick, gave sight to the blind, and raised the dead. He calmed the storm and walked on water. He fed the five thousand with five loaves and two fish. These are not the deeds of a mere man, but of God Himself, working wonders in our midst.

In conclusion, dear brethren, let us hold fast to the orthodox teaching of the Church, affirming the divinity of our Lord Jesus Christ. He is true God and true man, the Word made flesh, the second person of the Holy Trinity. Let us worship Him, adore Him, and give thanks to Him, for He is worthy of all praise and honor, now and forever, unto the ages of ages. Amen.

(To be continued) 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1902 | date:2023-11-02T22:02:17 ---


--- id:1903 | date:2023-11-02T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #George: the great martyr and warrior for the faith 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, in the Lord, grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Today is the monthly feast of St. George and hence let us read about him and partake of his blessings. 

👉 Inquiry: What is the significance of this iconic depiction of Saint George?

✍ Response: We have spoken at length, dear brethren, on the sacred art of iconography, its origins steeped in Holy Tradition, its sanctified practice endorsed by the guardians of the Faith, and its necessity as a window to the divine. The image of the martyr Saint George, resplendent on his steed, lance in hand, plunging into the dragon, is not a mere depiction of mortal combat but a rich set of spiritual truth.

This scene is an edifying spectacle, illustrating not only Saint George's noble upbringing but also his spiritual ascent. Consider the young saint, who, at the tender age of ten, had already mastered the spear. This weapon, both in physical and spiritual terms, symbolizes the Word of God, sharp and double-edged, piercing the very soul and spirit. And as he grew in stature, he sojourned among the pagans proclaiming, "Behold, I am George, servant of Christ the King."

Saint George relinquished the earthly titles bestowed upon him at his father’s demise, seeking instead the celestial crown offered by the King of kings. On reaching the age of maturity, the governor of his land wished to tether him to worldly concerns through marriage, but the Holy Spirit destined him for a heavenly union. When the governor perished, Saint George journeyed to Beirut, where providence led him to a maiden bound to a tree.

This maiden, destined for the maw of the draconic beast, represents the soul ensnared by sin, awaiting the deliverance only Christ can offer. The dragon, an embodiment of the evil one, exhibits traits of ferocity and deception. Its defeat at the hands of Saint George was a foreshadowing of the ultimate victory over evil through Christ.

Saint George, upon encountering the weeping maiden, hearkened not to his own safety but rather declared, "I may lack a beard, yet the One who stands with me shall triumph." This declaration is a testament to the indwelling power of the Triune God, for in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, he engaged the beast.

The ensuing victory over the dragon was more than a physical conquest; it was a demonstration of divine power. Saint George implored the onlookers to turn from their idolatry and embrace the truth of God. Upon their assent, he dispatched the dragon and raised a church as a beacon of faith.

Thus, the image of Saint George slaying the dragon is not a mere depiction of heroism; it is a narrative icon that speaks of salvation, of the warrior saint’s sacrificial spirit, and of the transformative power of God's grace.

Brethren, let us then regard the figure of Saint George not simply as a subject of artistic portrayal but as an exemplar of virtue. In the visage of this saint, we are reminded that our own lives are to be a living icon, manifesting Christ to the world through our actions, our sufferings, and our steadfast faith.

May the deeds of Saint George inspire us to combat the dragons of our time—sin, despair, and faithlessness—with the spear of truth and the shield of faith. And let us, in our veneration, echo the faith of our forebears: honoring not only the saint but the One who crowned him, even unto death on the battlefield of this world.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1906 | date:2023-11-03T22:00:57 ---


--- id:1907 | date:2023-11-03T22:04:32 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy #Eucharist 

Brethren in the Lord, who stand steadfast in the unwavering Orthodox faith, grace unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Today we will be learning about the holy Eucharist, which stands as the pinnacle of our redemption and the very lifeblood of the Church.

✍ The Incarnation: The Prologue to the Eucharist

Before we venture into the holy of holies, let us lay a foundation by reflecting upon the Incarnation, which is the cornerstone of all Christian doctrine. In the fullness of time, God, in His inscrutable wisdom, willed to be united with man. "The Word became flesh and dwelt among us" (John 1:14). This is not a mere visitation but an abiding union. The Godhead was pleased to dwell bodily (Colossians 2:9), and in this union, the natures of divinity and humanity are neither confounded nor separated but are united without mixture or change.

In this mystical union, Christ fully assumed our nature, bearing our griefs, carrying our sorrows, yet without sin. As Saint Cyril rightly proclaimed, the nature that needed salvation was not passed over. Thus, the unblemished Lamb, perfect God and perfect Man, presented Himself as the only sacrifice capable of redeeming our fallen state.

✍ The Eucharist: The Continuation of Incarnation

The Eucharist, dear faithful, is not separate from this grand narrative; it is the perpetuation of the Incarnation. Just as the divine nature did not obliterate the human in Christ, so the essence of bread and wine is not destroyed when consecrated as the Body and Blood. Here, the Church in her wisdom teaches us that in this Holy Sacrament, there is a mystical but real transformation, akin to the Incarnation itself.

As the Lord Jesus, at His Last Supper, did not speak in parables when He said, "This is my body... This is my blood" (Matthew 26:26-28), we take Him at His divine word, acknowledging a mystery that cannot be fathomed by the human mind but is apprehended by faith.

✍ The Eucharist: The Apex of Theology

In the Eucharist, we find the sum and summit of all theological truth. It is the tangible expression of God's love, the assurance of His promise, the fulfillment of the covenant. The Eucharist stands as a foretaste of the eschatological feast, where the Church militant and the Church triumphant are united in the worship of the Lamb.

This Sacrament is not a mere remembrance but an anamnesis, a making present of the one sacrifice of Calvary. In the Divine Liturgy, we are lifted above time and space, and the events of our redemption are made present to us, that we might partake of the fruits of the Tree of Life which is Christ Himself.

✍ The Eucharist: The Medicine of Immortality

Saint Ignatius of Antioch called the Eucharist the "medicine of immortality," and rightly so. For as much as the body requires bread for sustenance, so too does the soul require the Body of Christ for eternal life. In this Holy Communion, we are united to Christ and through Him to one another, forming one body, of which He is the head.

To partake of the Eucharist unworthily is to eat and drink judgment upon oneself (1 Corinthians 11:29). Hence, the Church, as a loving mother, calls her children to approach with a pure heart, having confessed and repented, that they might be made partakers of divine nature (2 Peter 1:4).

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1908 | date:2023-11-03T22:06:01 ---
✍ Conclusion: The Call to Union with Christ

The Eucharist calls us to a life of holiness and union with Christ. It is not an end in itself but the means to our sanctification and salvation. To commune is to abide in Christ and to have Christ abide in us. Here, the faithful are invited to partake of the divine banquet, to enter into the joy of their Master, and to be transformed into the image of the One who gave Himself up for us all.

Let us, therefore, draw near with faith and with an ardent desire to be united with Christ, to be healed by His touch, and to be sanctified by His life-giving Body and Blood. May this Holy Sacrament be for us a pledge of the world to come and a haven of salvation in this present age.

In the words of our beloved Saint John Chrysostom, "O taste and see that the Lord is good" (Psalm 34:8), and let us partake of this banquet with the angels, making earth

 join with heaven, in the unending hymn of praise.

Through the prayers of our Holy Fathers, Lord Jesus Christ our God, have mercy on us. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1911 | date:2023-11-04T22:45:26 ---
👉🏾 About #fornication of eyes and thoughts

👉 Question፦ What is meant by fornication of thought and eyes?

Answer፦ The fornication of thought and eyes, my dear member, is a profound ailment of the soul, where one entertains impure thoughts and allows the gaze to fall upon things that inflame passions and lead one astray from the path of righteousness. In the Holy Scriptures, we are called to purity not only in deed but in heart and mind as well. Our Lord Jesus Christ said, “Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God” (Matthew 5:8).

This sin of the mind and eyes is a deviation from the sacred covenant we are to keep with our bodies and souls as temples of the Holy Spirit. The antidote to such temptation is vigilance in our thoughts and discipline in our sight. We are to "set no wicked thing before [our] eyes" (Psalm 101:3) and to take captive every thought to make it obedient to Christ (2 Corinthians 10:5).

To cultivate purity, one must immerse oneself in prayer, the reading of Holy Scripture, and the lives of the saints, whose examples inspire us to greater holiness. A spiritual father or guide, as provided through our ministry, is invaluable in this struggle, for they can help direct your gaze towards the “author and finisher of our faith” (Hebrews 12:2).

Remember, our battle is not against the flesh, but against “principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world” (Ephesians 6:12). Guarding our senses is not simply an act of personal piety but a warfare against these spiritual forces.

Now, dear soul, what step will you take to guard your heart and eyes, to draw nearer to the purity to which Christ calls you?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1914 | date:2023-11-05T21:45:25 ---


--- id:1915 | date:2023-11-05T21:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #free_will 

Consider, my beloved, the Scriptures that recount the creation of man. "And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness" (Genesis 1:26). In these words lies a mystery profound: that man was fashioned as a mirror of God’s own liberty, bestowed with the ability to choose—a faculty divine in its root. Man does not live by constraint, but by freedom, and this is the very essence of his glory, surpassing all other creatures.

Yet, with the subtlety of a serpent, the question slithers into the garden of our mind: What is this free will? It is, I tell you, the power to incline oneself towards the good or to descent towards evil. But mark this well: though the choice is ours, the capacity to choose the good and the very notion of good comes from God. For, as the Apostle James teaches, "Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above" (James 1:17).

Now, some do err, thinking death and sin as natural to man as his very flesh. But this is not so. For sin is not the coin of our realm, nor death our native country. These are but intruders, unnatural guests that have darkened our doorstep through the misuse of our sacred gift. We were, as the holy Apostle Paul declares, predestined for life and salvation. But predestination without free will is like a painter without a canvas—it cannot manifest.

Oh, the deep wisdom of Saint Athanasius! For he did perceive the ignoble fall of man who, by his will, descends to the depths, ensnared by his own choices, and thus is ruled by passions as by cruel taskmasters. Consider then the gravity of sin: it is a voluntary servitude, a bondage self-imposed, and therein lies its tragedy.

And what of the words of the wise Solomon? They resound as a warning to our souls: we must not court death through our misdeeds or usher in ruin by our actions. For in so doing, we yield to the basest element of ourselves and deny our God-given nature.

Consider further, brethren, the angels, those ministering spirits, who likewise bear the responsibility for their actions. For freedom is not the sole province of humanity; it is shared with the heavenly hosts. And in freedom, there is accountability. Only a free agent can be subject to judgment, for only he can truly choose.

Here, too, must we ponder the harsh truth that our will can become enslaved—enslaved by desire which, when it has conceived, brings forth sin, and sin, when it is finished, brings forth death, as Saint James the Just teaches. Thus, the will itself can become the very source of death.

Yet, do not despair, for the devil indeed plays upon our will but cannot coerce it. We may be tempted, yet by our free will, we can resist. By saying "no" to sin, we assert the divine image within us.

In conclusion, though the struggle between the carnal and the spiritual is fierce, there is hope. If we, by our free will, submit to God’s will and walk in the path of righteousness, let us be steadfast in prayer and fasting. For the Lord has promised: "Ask, and it shall be given you" (Matthew 7:7). And in asking for divine aid, we do not abdicate our freedom but perfect it, aligning our will with the divine will, which is our true liberation.

Thus, may the Almighty God, who in His infinite wisdom has granted us this precious gift of free will, cut asunder the cords of sin that bind us, that we may freely choose the good and in so doing, find our rest in Him. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1922 | date:2023-11-06T22:08:28 ---
👉🏾 About reading from #Eastern and #Oriental #Orthodox fathers

👉 Question፦ Greetings in the Lord, I have a question about something that has been on my mind lately! I read books written by Eastern Orthodox authors and their saints. They have been a great source of spiritual support in my journey, however I wonder if this will cause issues for me as Oriental Orthodox! Does our church have any sort of rules about reading or using resources from churches we aren't in Communion with? Are their saints, specifically modern saints that lived after the schism considered saints in our church?

Answer፦ Greetings to you in the peace and love of our Lord Jesus Christ,

It is a joy to hear of your diligence in seeking spiritual nourishment through the writings of the holy ones who have walked the path of faith before us. The quest for understanding and the enrichment of one’s faith through the writings of saints and learned authors is indeed commendable.

In the embrace of the Orthodox tradition, both Eastern and Oriental, we find common ground in the veneration of saints who lived before the Chalcedonian schism. These holy men and women belong to both our families and provide us with a shared heritage of faith and piety.

When considering modern saints recognized after the schism, there is a space for nuanced appreciation. The Oriental Orthodox Church may not formally recognize the canonization of saints from the Eastern Orthodox tradition, yet there is a personal freedom to honor any who lead us nearer to the heart of Christ. If their teachings resonate with truth and guide you toward a life of sanctity, then they are indeed beneficial.

However, discernment is paramount. Do they bring peace, growth in virtues, and a clearer vision of Christ? It is wise to engage with these texts under the guidance of a spiritual father who can offer insights and direction because some might seem Orthodox but are not. 

The wisdom of the saints of the Eastern Orthodox Church, much like the flowers in a neighbor's garden, can be admired and even benefit from their fragrance. Their holy lives and ascetic teachings are akin to rainfalls that water the whole earth; they do not discriminate where they provide nourishment. Indeed, there is a shared veneration for those saints who shone with the light of Christ before the historical separation of our Churches.

However, for the faithful of the Oriental Orthodox communion, it is to our own garden that we must tend primarily. The saints and teachers of the Oriental Orthodox Church are the plants rooted in the soil of our specific ecclesiastical landscape. They are the ones whom our Church has officially recognized, whose teachings have been meticulously scrutinized and whose intercessions we invoke during our divine services.

To ground oneself in the Oriental Orthodox tradition is to drink deeply from the wells of our Fathers—Saints Cyril, Athanasius, Severus, and Dioscorus, to name but a few. Their understanding of Christology and theology, their pastoral care, their liturgical hymns and prayers, all these have been tailored to the fabric of our Church's life and experience through the centuries.

However, let this not discourage you from seeking wisdom and learning from fathers of the Eastern Orthodox Church. The important thing is to first look to our garden before looking at our neighbor's. 

May I ask, have you found a spiritual guide within the Oriental Orthodox Church to help you navigate these waters of wisdom, both familiar and foreign? How might you continue to seek the holy teachings within our tradition to deepen your spiritual journey?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1924 | date:2023-11-07T21:45:02 ---


--- id:1925 | date:2023-11-07T21:45:02 ---


--- id:1926 | date:2023-11-07T21:45:02 ---


--- id:1927 | date:2023-11-07T21:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About out Lady the Virgin #Mary 

Question፦ Bless me Father. I am a convert. I have a profound love for Our Lady Dingil Maryam. I heard it said that She is the gate to Zion. How should we properly approach Our Lady Maryam? How should we understand her?

Answer፦ Blessed are you, dear child, in your journey towards the embrace of Holy Orthodoxy. Our Lady, the Theotokos and Ever-Virgin Mary, holds a place of high honor in our faith, for she is the gate through which the Light of the World has entered. As it is written: "Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel" (Isaiah 7:14).

In approaching Our Lady Maryam, we do so with utmost reverence and love, recognizing her as the pure vessel of salvation, chosen by God to bear His only-begotten Son. We venerate her, not as a deity, but as the Mother of God, honoring her unique and singular role in the history of our salvation.

To understand her is to reflect upon her life — her humility, her obedience, and her unyielding faith. She stands as the supreme model of submission to God's will, a beacon of light guiding us towards her Son, Jesus Christ. We approach her with prayerful hearts, through the many beautiful Akathists and hymns written in her honor, through contemplation of her icons, and by emulating her virtues in our lives.

Remember, dear child, that devotion to the Theotokos is a journey towards Christ. For every honor we give to Mary directs us to the ultimate worship of God. Let us ask ourselves: how might we, like the Blessed Virgin, become bearers of Christ in our world?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1928 | date:2023-11-08T21:15:01 ---


--- id:1929 | date:2023-11-08T21:16:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the annual #feast of Our Lord and Savior #Jesus #Christ; the medicine of the world. 

Brethren in Christ, as we commemorate the annual feast of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ (November 7), let us take a moment and learn more about Him and the Devine gifts He has given us. Jesus Christ is both fully man fully God. He is perfect in His divinity and perfect in His humanity. This is no mere titular union, nor a confounding of natures as the heretics have vainly asserted, but a true and indissoluble union, one Person of two natures, unaltered, unconfused, undivided, and inseparable. He is of two natures, which undergo no confusion, no change, no division, no separation; at no point was the difference between the natures taken away through the union, but rather the property of each nature is preserved and comes together to form one person and subsistence.

Consider, O faithful, that the Word became flesh not by a mere appearance or diminution of His divine nature; rather, He remained what He was and assumed what He was not, for our sake and for our salvation. In the unfathomable abyss of His mercy, He who is beyond eternity entered time, He whom the heavens cannot contain was contained in a virgin’s womb, He who upholds the universe was held in the arms of a mother.

Behold the Eucharist, that venerable and most divine Sacrament of His Body and Blood. As the Incarnation unites divinity with humanity, so does the Holy Eucharist unite Christ with us, and us with Christ. This is not a mere symbol, as some have erroneously taught, but the true Body and the true Blood, offered for the life of the world and for its salvation. As St. John Damascene declares, "The bread and wine are not a foreshadowing of the body and blood of Christ—by no means!—but the deified body of the Lord, because the Lord has said, 'This is my body', not, 'This is a symbol of my body', and 'My blood', not, 'A symbol of my blood'."

And what, dear brethren, is the Church but the Body of Christ, the fullness of Him who fills all in all? Within the embrace of the Church lies the fulness of truth and the treasures of grace, dispensed through the sacraments. In her, heaven and earth are joined, and the eschatological reality of the Kingdom is made present. The Church, both visible and invisible, temporal and eternal, is the context in which the mysteries of God are made manifest and efficacious.

The incarnate Logos, Jesus Christ our Lord, is the center and culmination of all history, the Alpha and Omega, the One in whom all things hold together. By His Incarnation, life, death, resurrection, and ascension, He has recapitulated all things, offering us a path to deification, that we may become by grace what He is by nature.

In this salvific narrative, we must not overlook the kenotic movement of the Incarnation: He who was in the form of God took the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, He humbled Himself and became obedient unto death, even death on a cross. This self-emptying is not a forsaking of His divine nature, but the expression of His divine love, a love which calls us to communion, to theosis, to partake of the divine nature.

Therefore, let us approach this great mystery with awe and with humility, with repentance and with love. Let us embrace the risen Christ with a faith not blind but seeing beyond sight, discerning the Word made flesh for our sake. As we partake of the Holy Mysteries, let us be transformed, becoming what we receive, the body of Christ, to the praise of His glorious grace.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:1930 | date:2023-11-08T21:19:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

As we venerate this sacred mystery of our redemption, let us live out the implications of the Incarnation in our lives. Let our worship be incarnational, touching the very flesh of our existence, transforming our actions, suffusing our relationships, and transfiguring the cosmos itself with the light of Christ.

And thus, may we walk in the way of the Lord, adorned with the virtues, anointed with the chrism of the Spirit, until we come to the full stature of Christ, to dwell in the New Jerusalem, where tears are wiped away, where death is no more, and where the Lamb is the light thereof. Amen.

Let us, therefore, celebrate this feast with joy and with a spirit of profound gratitude, as we marvel at the love of God made manifest in Christ Jesus. For in Him, we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of His grace which He lavished upon us.

Let us pray that the light of Christ, the Incarnate Word, may ever shine in our hearts, guiding us to the eternal embrace of the Father, in the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1931 | date:2023-11-09T21:03:52 ---


--- id:1932 | date:2023-11-09T21:03:52 ---


--- id:1933 | date:2023-11-09T21:05:56 ---
👉🏾 About #creation and #dinosaurs 

👉 Question፦ Hello, I was wondering what the church says about dinosaurs and tectonic plates in relation to the timeline of the earth/universe according to science and the events that occurred compared to biblical timeline of the universe. Did dinosaurs exist & if so, when did they actually exist if the world hasn't been existing for millions of years according to the bible. How long has the universe been existing? is it in thousands or in millions?  Someone asked me this questions & i am not sure how to respond. Thank you!

Answer፦ Dear seeker of truth,

Your inquiry touches upon the harmony between faith and science, a topic that has long intrigued both believers and scholars. The Orthodox Church, while deeply rooted in the spiritual understanding of creation as revealed in Scripture, does not oppose scientific discovery or the study of the natural world. In fact, the Church Fathers often encouraged the study of God's creation as a means to better understand and appreciate the Creator Himself.

Regarding dinosaurs and tectonic plates, the Church does not have an official position on scientific matters such as these. However, it is important to remember that the Bible, particularly the Book of Genesis, is not a scientific textbook but a theological and spiritual document. Its purpose is to convey the truth of God’s relationship with the world and humanity, rather than to provide a detailed account of the physical development of the universe.

Saint Basil the Great, in his "Hexaemeron," which is a series of homilies on the six days of creation, affirms that the creation of the world is an act of God, but he does not delve into specific scientific explanations. He writes, “What sort of day was it then? It was one without the succession of day and night, a day not measured by the sun, a day which had no need of any luminary.”

As for the age of the universe, the Church allows for a variety of understandings. While some may interpret the days of creation in Genesis as literal 24-hour periods, others view them as symbolic of longer epochs. The Church does not bind its faithful to a specific interpretation, as the essence of our faith lies in the Creator, not in the details of His creation.

Regarding the existence of dinosaurs, it is entirely possible, within the framework of Orthodox theology, to acknowledge their existence in the ancient past, as uncovered by scientific research. This does not conflict with our faith, as our understanding of God and His creation can encompass both the spiritual truths of the Bible and the discoveries of science.

In Psalm 104:24, it is said, “O Lord, how manifold are thy works! In wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.” This verse invites us to marvel at the vastness and complexity of God's creation, reminding us that our understanding is always limited compared to the infinite wisdom of God.

In your journey of faith and understanding, how might you find ways to harmonize the spiritual truths of our faith with the discoveries of the world God has created?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1936 | date:2023-11-10T21:30:25 ---


--- id:1937 | date:2023-11-10T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Nativity of Saint #Mary

Beloved in Christ, we gather today to contemplate a mystery profound, An event both in time and beyond time: the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the Theotokos, our spiritual mother. This narrative is not merely a story of the past but a living fountain of spiritual wisdom and grace, flowing into the hearts of the faithful.

The Prelude to Redemption

In the fullness of time, a moment chosen by Providence, the world witnessed the birth of Mary, a pivotal event in the history of salvation. Her nativity signifies not just the birth of a saintly figure, but the dawning of a new era in divine-human relations. The earth, long cursed to bear thorns and thistles, offered its first and most splendid fruit in Mary. Herein, we behold a divine paradox: the infinite God preparing a finite creature to become His dwelling place.

The Righteous Ancestors: Joachim and Anna

Consider Joachim and Anna, her venerable parents. In them, we see a living testament to faith and righteousness. Their lives, marked by piety and adherence to the law, were a prelude to the grace they would receive. Their daughter, Mary, was not merely the fruit of their lineage but a gift of grace, a testament to the power of God working through human fidelity. They were chosen not for their nobility or riches but for their humility and devotion, proving that God exalts the lowly and fills the hungry with good things.

The Conception and Birth of Mary

In the conception and birth of Mary, we witness the intersection of divine providence and human cooperation. This event was not an ordinary occurrence but a divine intervention, marking the beginning of the fulfillment of ancient prophecies. The birth of Mary was the dawn before the rising Sun, Christ Himself. She was born not of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.

Mary: The Fulfillment of the Law

The nativity of Mary is not merely an isolated event but a critical juncture in the divine plan. She stands as the fulfillment of the Law, embodying its purity and righteousness. In her, the virtues extolled in the Old Testament find their perfect expression. Thus, in venerating Mary, we venerate the culmination of the law’s promise, the bridge between the old and the new.

The Virginity of Mary: A Sign of Divine Favor

The perpetual virginity of Mary is a sign of her unique role in salvation history. She was chosen, not consumed by earthly desires, but dedicated entirely to God's purpose. Her virginity is not a mere physical attribute but a symbol of her total consecration to God. In giving birth to Christ, she remains a virgin, signifying the miraculous nature of Christ's birth and the divine mystery encompassing it.

The Universal Motherhood of Mary

In her birth, Mary was given to humanity as a gift of grace, and through her, we received Christ, the greater gift. By bearing Christ, she becomes not only His mother but also the spiritual mother of all who follow Him. In her, we find our spiritual lineage, our connection to the divine. She is a mother to all, nurturing us in the faith and guiding us toward her Son.

Mary's Birth: A Challenge to Ancient Philosophies

The nativity of Mary confronts the ancient philosophies that viewed the material world with suspicion or contempt. In her, we see that creation can be sanctified and raised to divine dignity. Her purity and holiness challenge our perceptions of the physical world, revealing that it is not matter that is corrupt, but our misuse of it.

The Joy of Mary's Birth

The birth of Mary is a cause for universal rejoicing. It marks the end of a long period of spiritual barrenness and the beginning of our redemption. Just as a mother forgets her labor pains for the joy of bringing a child into the world, so too does the birth of Mary turn our sorrow into joy. In her birth, we see the promise of our own rebirth in Christ, the dawn of a new creation.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:1938 | date:2023-11-10T21:32:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

Conclusion: Emulating Mary's Virtues

In contemplating the Nativity of Mary, let us strive to emulate her virtues: her humility, her obedience, her purity, and her total dedication to God's will. As we honor her, we are called to reflect on our own calling to be bearers of Christ in our world, to bring forth the fruits of the Spirit in our lives. May the Nativity of the Theotokos inspire us to live lives worthy of the calling we have received in Christ Jesus. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1940 | date:2023-11-12T21:01:12 ---


--- id:1941 | date:2023-11-12T21:01:12 ---


--- id:1942 | date:2023-11-12T21:01:12 ---


--- id:1943 | date:2023-11-12T21:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Essence of #Prayer in Orthodox Christianity

Prayer, in the Orthodox tradition, is not merely a ritual or a set of words recited mechanically. It is the breath of the soul, a dialogue with the Divine. It transcends mere spoken language, reaching into the depths of the heart where the spirit communes with God. This communion is akin to a mystical union, where the soul, stripped of worldly distractions, stands naked and humbled before its Creator.

True Prayer: The Heart's Dialogue with God

True prayer is characterized by humility, love, and a deep yearning for God's presence. It is not merely the utterance of words but a state of the heart. In the words of St. John Chrysostom, "Prayer does not mean simply to pour out one's heart. It means rather to find the way to God and to speak with Him, whether the soul is full of joy or despair." Thus, true prayer is the lifting of the heart and mind to God, transcending the boundaries of earthly concerns.

The Necessity of Constant Prayer

The Orthodox tradition emphasizes the need for unceasing prayer. As St. Paul urges, "pray without ceasing" (1 Thessalonians 5:17). This constant prayer is not a ceaseless utterance of words but a continual orientation of the heart towards God. It's about maintaining a state of spiritual alertness, always being in God's presence, and being aware of His omnipresence.

The Role of the Jesus Prayer

In Orthodox spirituality, the Jesus Prayer ("Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner") holds a special place. It is a simple yet powerful tool that assists in the journey towards continuous prayer. By repeating this prayer, one is constantly calling upon the name of Jesus, thereby fostering an intimate relationship with Him.

The Liturgical and Personal Dimensions of Prayer

Orthodox worship is deeply liturgical, and these communal prayers serve as a model for personal prayer. The Divine Liturgy, the pinnacle of Orthodox worship, is not only a communal celebration but also a personal encounter with the living God. Similarly, personal prayer is not isolated from the liturgical life of the Church but is intimately connected to it.

The Transformative Power of Prayer

Prayer, in the Orthodox understanding, is transformative. It changes us, molds us, and brings us closer to the likeness of God. As St. John Chrysostom eloquently puts it, "Prayer is the light of the soul, the true knowledge of God and man, the healer of vices, the physician of diseases, the peace of the soul, the heavenly guide which lifts men from earth to heaven."

Concluding Reflections

In conclusion, prayer in the Orthodox tradition is a journey of transformation, a continuous dialogue with God that takes place in the heart. It is an ascent of the soul towards God, a means of entering into the divine mystery, and a path to becoming partakers of the divine nature. May this understanding of prayer enrich and deepen the spiritual lives of all who seek to draw nearer to God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1944 | date:2023-11-13T20:30:01 ---


--- id:1945 | date:2023-11-13T20:30:22 ---


--- id:1946 | date:2023-11-13T20:33:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Nature of #Spiritual #Wisdom in Orthodoxy

In the heart of Orthodox spirituality lies the pursuit of a deep, personal relationship with God. This relationship is nurtured not just through intellectual understanding but through a life lived in accordance with God's will. Spiritual wisdom, therefore, is more than knowledge; it is the lived experience of God's presence in our lives.

1. The Pursuit of Humility and Truth

The first step towards acquiring spiritual wisdom is the embrace of humility. In the Orthodox tradition, humility is not weakness but a recognition of our dependence on God. It is the fertile ground where wisdom takes root. As we humble ourselves, acknowledging our limitations and our need for divine guidance, we become receptive to the truths God reveals to us. These truths are not always in harmony with the world's wisdom, but they are anchored in a higher understanding that transcends human reasoning.

2. The Role of the Holy Spirit

Orthodox spirituality emphasizes the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, who guides us into all truth. This Spirit reveals the mysteries of the divine and makes known the deep things of God. He is the one who enlightens our minds and hearts, enabling us to grasp the profound realities of the Christian faith. The Holy Spirit also aids us in discerning the truth, helping us distinguish between what is genuinely of God and what is not.

3. Wisdom in Action: The Orthodox Way of Life

In Orthodoxy, wisdom is not merely an intellectual exercise but is demonstrated through action. It involves living out the teachings of Christ in daily life. This means practicing virtues such as love, patience, kindness, and forgiveness. It also means participating in the sacramental life of the Church, through which grace is imparted to believers. The Eucharist, confession, prayer, and fasting are not just rituals but means of grace that cultivate spiritual wisdom within us.

4. The Significance of Suffering and Trials

The Orthodox perspective views suffering and trials as opportunities for spiritual growth. In the midst of difficulties, believers are called to cling to God and trust in His providence. These challenging moments are seen as purifying fires that refine our faith and deepen our understanding of God's ways. Through suffering, we learn to rely not on our own strength but on the grace of God.

5. The End Goal: Theosis

The ultimate goal of spiritual wisdom in Orthodoxy is theosis – becoming partakers of the divine nature. This is not about becoming divine in essence but about being transformed into the likeness of Christ. It is a process of sanctification where we are increasingly united with God in love and holiness. This journey towards theosis is lifelong and is marked by a growing intimacy with God and a deepening understanding of His will.

Conclusion: A Life Anchored in Christ

True spiritual wisdom, therefore, in the Orthodox tradition, is about living a life that is deeply rooted in Christ. It is about allowing the teachings of the Church, the guidance of the Holy Spirit, and the transformative power of God's grace to shape our lives. It is a journey of both the heart and the mind, leading us towards the fullness of life that God intends for us.

The path to spiritual wisdom is not easy, nor is it laden with worldly accolades. It is a narrow path, marked by humility, obedience, and a ceaseless yearning for the divine. But for those who embark on this journey, the rewards are eternal – a peace that surpasses understanding and a joy that is complete in Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1948 | date:2023-11-14T21:01:01 ---


--- id:1949 | date:2023-11-14T21:01:02 ---


--- id:1950 | date:2023-11-14T21:01:02 ---


--- id:1951 | date:2023-11-14T21:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About King St. #Lalibela 

The Sacred Vision of Saint Lalibela

In the heart of Ethiopia, under the divine guidance of the Holy Spirit, arose a king whose spiritual vision transcended the bounds of his earthly kingdom.  King St. Lalibela, moved by the plight of his people who could no longer embark on pilgrimages to Jerusalem, was graced with a heavenly vision. This vision was not merely a replica of the earthly Jerusalem but an embodiment of the celestial city, the New Jerusalem, as revealed to Saint John the Theologian in his Revelation. Herein, Saint Lalibela was called to create a spiritual oasis, a Jerusalem in Ethiopia, that would be a beacon of faith and hope for his people and all who sought the divine.

The Intersection of Holiness and Kingship

The life of Saint Lalibela stands as a testament to the harmonious blending of royal authority and sanctity. He was not merely a temporal ruler but a spiritual beacon, embodying the ideal of the priest-king. His reign was marked by an unyielding devotion to God, a devotion that transcended mere ritualistic observance and penetrated the very essence of his being. His was a rule guided by divine wisdom, where the scepter of governance and the staff of spiritual authority were held in a harmonious balance.

The Architectural Testament

The rock-hewn churches of Lalibela are not merely architectural marvels but are imbued with deep theological significance. Each structure, carved with painstaking devotion and divine inspiration, stands as a living sermon in stone. These churches are a manifestation of Saint Lalibela's deep spiritual communion with God, a physical testament to an invisible reality. They are, in their very essence, a microcosm of the heavenly Jerusalem, a tangible encounter with the divine mystery.

The Trials and Triumphs of Faith

The life of Saint Lalibela was marked by trials and tribulations, moments where the darkness of human malice sought to overshadow the light of divine purpose. Yet, in every instance, these trials were transformed into triumphs of faith. The poison intended to end his life became a means of divine revelation and physical healing, echoing the words of Christ that His followers would handle serpents and drink deadly poison without harm (Mark 16:18). This miraculous deliverance is a testament to the power of faith and the protective hand of God over His chosen ones.

The Covenantal Promises

Saint Lalibela's life was marked by divine promises, each a covenantal seal of his divine mission. These promises were not mere words but were living realities that shaped his reign and his spiritual journey. They were assurances of divine favor, guiding him in his earthly mission and assuring him of his eternal reward.

The Eternal Legacy

The legacy of King St. Lalibela transcends the boundaries of time and space. His life, his works, and his spiritual vision continue to inspire and guide not only the faithful in Ethiopia but all who seek a deeper understanding of the divine mystery. His churches stand as silent yet eloquent witnesses to a faith that is both ancient and ever new, a faith that calls each believer to a pilgrimage not just to a physical location but to the very heart of God.

In conclusion, the life and works of King St. Lalibela are a mosaic of divine grace, earthly wisdom, and spiritual vision. They beckon us to look beyond the visible and seek the face of the invisible God, reminding us that our ultimate pilgrimage is not to a place of stone and mortar but to the heavenly Jerusalem, the eternal abode of God and His saints. This is the legacy of King St. Lalibela, a legacy that calls each of us to a deeper, more profound faith.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1954 | date:2023-11-15T20:30:06 ---
👉🏾 About the #killing of #animals 

👉 Question፦ Will we be judged for killing animals like Rodents?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

In our contemplation of life and its sacredness, we are reminded of the profound words in Genesis 1:26, where God says, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth." This dominion is not of tyranny but of stewardship, a call to care for God's creation with love and respect.

In the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, as well as in the broader Orthodox Christian tradition, the relationship between humans and animals is viewed through the lens of stewardship and compassion. All creatures are part of God's creation, and as such, they are to be treated with respect and care. While the Church does not explicitly condemn the killing of animals for necessary purposes, such as for food, it does encourage mindfulness and respect for all life.

The act of killing rodents, or any other animal should always be approached with a sense of responsibility and, when necessary, with a spirit of regret for the loss of life. We are reminded to always seek the most humane and compassionate solutions in our interactions with all of God's creatures.

Reflecting on our actions and their impact on the world around us is an essential part of our spiritual journey. In doing so, we align ourselves more closely with God's will, fostering a spirit of humility and love. As you consider this aspect of your life, ask yourself: How can I exercise compassionate stewardship in all my interactions with God's creation?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1955 | date:2023-11-15T20:31:16 ---


--- id:1956 | date:2023-11-15T20:31:16 ---


--- id:1957 | date:2023-11-15T20:33:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy family's return to the Holy land. 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we celebrate the Holy family's return from Egypt to Israel. We call this feast 'Debre Kuskwam' or Mount of Kuskwam. Let us learn about this Holy day and partake from it's blessings. 

The Departure from Egypt: A Symbol of Spiritual Liberation

The journey of the Holy Family from Egypt to Israel mirrors the exodus of the Israelites from the land of bondage. Just as Moses led God's chosen people out of slavery into the Promised Land, so too did Joseph guide the Holy Family from the land of Egypt, symbolizing a departure from the spiritual bondage of sin and idolatry. This journey represents the Christian's path from the bondage of sin to the freedom of grace.

The Suffering and Endurance: A Lesson in Humility and Trust

The trials and tribulations faced by the Holy Family during their exile in Egypt and their journey back to Israel serve as a testament to their humility and unwavering trust in God's providence. Their hardships, akin to the tribulations faced by every Christian soul on its journey towards salvation, are a reminder of the suffering Christ Himself would endure for the redemption of mankind.

The Reception and Hospitality in Ethiopia: Embracing the Universal Church

The warm welcome and hospitality the Holy Family received in Ethiopia is emblematic of the universality of Christ's message. Ethiopia, often regarded as a symbol of the Gentile nations in early Christian literature, represents the outreach of the Church to all nations and peoples. The Holy Family's sojourn in Ethiopia and the blessings they bestowed upon the land prefigure the spread of Christianity and the blessings it brings to all corners of the earth.

The Return to Israel: Fulfillment of Divine Will

The return of the Holy Family to Israel signifies the fulfillment of God's will and the completion of a divine journey that began with the Incarnation. This return was not just a physical journey but a spiritual one, marking a full circle from prophecy to fulfillment, from the promise of the Messiah to His living presence among His chosen people.

The Crossing of the River: A Miraculous Testament

The miraculous crossing of the river, facilitated by the divine intervention of Christ, is reminiscent of the crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites. It signifies the triumph of faith over seemingly insurmountable obstacles and the power of God to make a way where there seems to be no way.

Conclusion: The Everlasting Impact

The journey of the Holy Family from Egypt to Israel is not merely a historical event but a spiritual odyssey that encapsulates the essence of the Christian journey. Each step of this journey, marked by faith, hardship, divine intervention, and fulfillment of God's will, offers profound lessons for the faithful. It serves as a microcosm of the Church's pilgrimage through history, a journey from the shadows of sin into the glorious light of Christ's redemption.

In the manner of John Chrysostom, let us reflect deeply on these lessons, drawing from them strength and inspiration for our own spiritual journeys, continually seeking the grace and guidance of the Holy Family in our quest for salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1958 | date:2023-11-16T20:30:01 ---


--- id:1960 | date:2023-11-16T20:35:21 ---


--- id:1961 | date:2023-11-16T20:36:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #George the #martyr 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today is the yearly feast if St. George the great martyr. Hence we send you this lesson so you can read and partake from the day's blessings. 

1. Introduction to Saint George

   - Origins and Early Life: Saint George, born into a Christian family, demonstrated from a young age a fervent commitment to his faith. This dedication was a beacon that would guide him through the trials and tribulations of his life.
   - Symbolism: George, whose name means "farmer" or "earth-worker," symbolizes the cultivation of spiritual virtues and the battle against the weeds of vice and heresy.

2. The Spiritual Battle Against Diocletian
   - Diocletian's Persecution: Emperor Diocletian, known for his brutal persecution of Christians, represents the worldly powers that stand against divine truth. Saint George's confrontation with Diocletian is a dramatic embodiment of the eternal battle between good and evil.
   - Miraculous Defiance: The story of Saint George miraculously defeating Diocletian highlights the power of faith over earthly authority. It teaches us that divine providence can work wonders against the mightiest of worldly powers.

3. Theological Interpretation
   - Martyrdom and Witness: Saint George's martyrdom is a testament to his unwavering faith. In Orthodox theology, martyrdom is not merely a physical death but a witness to the truth of Christ.
   - Iconography and Symbols: In Orthodox iconography, Saint George is often depicted slaying a dragon. This dragon symbolizes evil, and its defeat signifies the triumph of good over evil through faith.

4. Lessons from Saint George's Life
   - Courage and Conviction: His life teaches us the virtue of courage - not just physical bravery, but the moral courage to stand for truth against overwhelming odds.
   - Faith in Trials: George's story is a powerful reminder that in our own trials and tribulations, faith can provide strength and hope.

5. Modern Relevance
   - In Times of Persecution: In an era where many face persecution for their faith, Saint George stands as a beacon of hope and resilience.
   - Spiritual Warfare: His life reminds us that the battle is not only against external forces but also against internal vices and temptations.

6. Conclusion: A Call to Faith and Action
   - Invitation to Holiness: Saint George's life is an invitation to us all to cultivate virtue and steadfastness in faith.
   - Prayer and Reflection: Let us seek the intercession of Saint George in our spiritual battles, drawing inspiration from his courage and devotion.

In conclusion, the life of the Martyr Saint George is not just a historical account; it is a vibrant lesson in faith, courage, and the power of goodness over the forces of darkness. As followers of the Orthodox faith, let us take heart from his example and strive to embody these virtues in our own lives.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1963 | date:2023-11-17T20:31:00 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 📣

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, our mission continues to grow, and as we look forward to further strengthening our services, we humbly request your involvement and support. Please reach out to us if you're interested in this opportunity. (@yohannesneseha)

We believe that with increased manpower, our reach can be extended even further, ensuring that our offerings are accessible to the global community. The area in which we currently need assistance is the following፦

👉 Social media management: We need assistance managing our social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. This is much easier than it sounds. It's usually a copy paste. 

In essence, your support would contribute to enhancing our services, helping our spiritual leaders, and saving the time of all families who use the John's Repentance website.

Please note, this volunteer opportunity can be fulfilled using your mobile phone and can be carried out at a time that suits your schedule. This is an unpaid, voluntary service offering, filled with the opportunity for spiritual blessings.

We thank you in advance for your generous cooperation and encourage you to reach out to us if you're willing to be a part of this spiritual mission. Your contribution will be greatly appreciated, and we are excited about the potential to work together in the service of God and our community.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1969 | date:2023-11-18T21:00:01 ---


--- id:1970 | date:2023-11-18T21:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the council of #Nicea

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today is the annual feast of the council of Nicea. Hence let us delve into this council convened under the auspices of the blessed Emperor Constantine in the year of our Lord 325. This hallowed assembly, gathering in the city of Nicaea, was a beacon of divine illumination, guiding the Church through tumultuous seas of heresy and schism.

318 bishops, shepherds of the faithful, convened in unity of purpose. Among them were luminaries such as Alexander of Alexandria, the venerable overseer of the Egyptian church, and Eustathius of Antioch, a beacon of orthodoxy. They gathered not for earthly gain but to safeguard the sacred doctrine against the ravages of heresy, most notably the teachings of Arius of Alexandria.

Arius, a presbyter whose name has since been etched in infamy, dared to proclaim a Christ diminished, a Son created and not co-eternal with the Father. This was not merely a theological dispute but an affront to the very nature of our Lord Jesus Christ. Such teachings, left unchecked, threatened to rend asunder the very fabric of the Church.

In the spirit of the apostles themselves, these venerable fathers, many scarred by the trials of persecution, gathered to reaffirm the truth of our faith. Emperor Constantine, a servant of God, provided a grand hall for their deliberations, humbling himself before the servants of the Lord. In this sacred space, they debated, prayed, and were guided by the Holy Spirit, crafting a creed that would stand as a bulwark against heresy.

This Nicene Creed, a testament to their faith and unity, articulated the full divinity of Christ: "We believe in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, begotten from the Father before all ages, God from God, Light from Light, true God from true God, begotten, not made; of the same essence as the Father." Through these words, they affirmed that Christ is not a created being but consubstantial with the Father, sharing the same divine essence.

Furthermore, the council established canons for the governance of the Church, addressing issues from the ordination of clergy to the reconciliation of those who had lapsed in faith. These canons reflected a profound understanding of the human condition, offering guidance and discipline while upholding the mercy and grace of God.

The Council of Nicaea stands as a testament to the Church's commitment to truth and unity. The creed formulated there did not merely address the controversies of the day but laid a foundation for all orthodox belief, a beacon of truth shining through the ages.

As we reflect on the legacy of Nicaea, let us hold fast to the truth handed down by these holy fathers. Their teachings, rooted in the apostolic tradition, guide us in our journey towards the Kingdom of Heaven. In their wisdom, let us find our path; in their courage, our inspiration; and in their unity, our strength. To God be the glory, now and forever. Amen.In the spirit of the revered John Chrysostom, let us delve deeply into the Council of Nicaea, a cornerstone of Orthodox Christianity, convened under the auspices of the blessed Emperor Constantine in the year of our Lord 325. This hallowed assembly, gathering in the city of Nicaea, was a beacon of divine illumination, guiding the Church through tumultuous seas of heresy and schism.

Behold, the setting of this divine council: three hundred and eighteen bishops, shepherds of the faithful, convened in unity of purpose. Among them were luminaries such as Alexander of Alexandria, the venerable overseer of the Egyptian church, and Eustathius of Antioch, a beacon of orthodoxy. They gathered not for earthly gain but to safeguard the sacred doctrine against the ravages of heresy, most notably the teachings of Arius of Alexandria.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:1971 | date:2023-11-18T21:06:01 ---
(Continued) 👆

Arius, a presbyter whose name has since been etched in infamy, dared to proclaim a Christ diminished, a Son created and not co-eternal with the Father. This was not merely a theological dispute but an affront to the very nature of our Lord Jesus Christ. Such teachings, left unchecked, threatened to rend asunder the very fabric of the Church.

In the spirit of the apostles themselves, these venerable fathers, many scarred by the trials of persecution, gathered to reaffirm the truth of our faith. Emperor Constantine, a servant of God, provided a grand hall for their deliberations, humbling himself before the servants of the Lord. In this sacred space, they debated, prayed, and were guided by the Holy Spirit, crafting a creed that would stand as a bulwark against heresy.

This Nicene Creed, a testament to their faith and unity, articulated the full divinity of Christ: "We believe in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only Son of God, begotten from the Father before all ages, God from God, Light from Light, true God from true God, begotten, not made; of the same essence as the Father." Through these words, they affirmed that Christ is not a created being but consubstantial with the Father, sharing the same divine essence.

Furthermore, the council established canons for the governance of the Church, addressing issues from the ordination of clergy to the reconciliation of those who had lapsed in faith. These canons reflected a profound understanding of the human condition, offering guidance and discipline while upholding the mercy and grace of God.

The Council of Nicaea stands as a testament to the Church's commitment to truth and unity. The creed formulated there did not merely address the controversies of the day but laid a foundation for all orthodox belief, a beacon of truth shining through the ages.

As we reflect on the legacy of Nicaea, let us hold fast to the truth handed down by these holy fathers. Their teachings, rooted in the apostolic tradition, guide us in our journey towards the Kingdom of Heaven. In their wisdom, let us find our path; in their courage, our inspiration; and in their unity, our strength. To God be the glory, now and forever. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1973 | date:2023-11-19T20:31:18 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 📣

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, our mission continues to grow, and as we look forward to further strengthening our services, we humbly request your involvement and support. Please reach out to us if you're interested in this opportunity. (@yohannesneseha)

We believe that with increased manpower, our reach can be extended even further, ensuring that our offerings are accessible to the global community. The area in which we currently need assistance is the following፦

👉 Social media management: We need assistance managing our social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. This is much easier than it sounds. It's less than 1hr of engagement per week. 

We thank you in advance for your generous cooperation and encourage you to reach out to us if you're willing to be a part of this spiritual mission. Your contribution will be greatly appreciated, and we are excited about the potential to work together in the service of God and our community.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1977 | date:2023-11-21T21:11:17 ---


--- id:1978 | date:2023-11-21T21:11:17 ---


--- id:1979 | date:2023-11-21T21:11:17 ---


--- id:1980 | date:2023-11-21T21:11:26 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Michael 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today is the monthly feast of St. Michael. Hence let us read the below text written about him and partake from his blessings. 

St. Michael, whose name echoes the divine query, "Who is like God?" stands as a beacon of divine strength and leadership. This mighty Archangel, esteemed in the heavenly hierarchy, is not merely a celestial being but also a symbol of hope and fortitude for the faithful. His role transcends the boundaries of heaven, extending his protective mantle over the faithful on earth.

Let us recall the ancient scriptures and the teachings of the Church Fathers, who spoke of St. Michael with reverence and awe. His presence in pivotal moments of Biblical history underscores his importance. When Joshua, leading the Israelites in the wilderness, encountered a divine figure with a drawn sword, it was none other than St. Michael, the captain of the Lord's host. This encounter, as narrated in the Book of Joshua, reveals the martial and protective aspects of St. Michael's character.

In the exodus from Egypt, where the Israelites were led from bondage to freedom, St. Michael was the guiding light, the angelic shepherd appointed by God Himself to safeguard His people. His role was not only as a guide but also as a guardian, ensuring the fulfillment of God's promises.

Furthermore, in the prophetic visions of Daniel, St. Michael emerges as a powerful intercessor and protector of the faithful. He is depicted as the great prince who stands guard over God's people, a testament to his enduring role in the salvation history.

In the New Testament, St. Michael's presence is equally profound. His role in the cosmic struggle against evil and his intercession for the faithful before the throne of God are themes that resonate throughout Christian theology.

The Orthodox Church, in its liturgical and theological tradition, has always held St. Michael in high esteem. His commemoration on the twelfth day of each month is not merely a ritualistic observance but a testament to his ongoing intercessory role. The Church teaches that St. Michael's prayers bring about the blessings of nature: the timely rains, the fruitful earth, the gentle winds—all are seen as manifestations of his intercession.

In our daily struggles and in the greater spiritual battle against sin and temptation, let us turn to St. Michael for guidance and protection. His example inspires us to stand firm in our faith, to confront the adversities of life with courage, and to remain steadfast in our devotion to God.

As we honor St. Michael, let us remember that his story is not just a tale from the past but a living reality that permeates the life of every Orthodox believer. In our prayers and in our actions, let us emulate his unwavering faith and his unceasing devotion to the will of God. May his intercession strengthen us, may his example guide us, and may his presence among us be a source of comfort and hope.

Thus, beloved in Christ, let us embrace the lessons and the legacy of the Archangel St. Michael. May his blessings be upon us, and may his intercession lead us closer to the divine. In his honor and memory, let us say, "Archangel Michael, pray for us, that we may be worthy of the promises of Christ." Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1983 | date:2023-11-22T21:15:36 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ What is the difference in beliefs about Christ between #Athanasius and #Arius? Could you explain the term 'Tax Christ' and 'Common Christ' if they have any significance in Orthodox Christianity? If a person in a #Muslim #family converts to Christianity, what should be their approach in terms of living arrangements and family relationships?

Answer፦ In the grace and peace of our Lord Jesus Christ, I greet you, dear questioner, seeking to illuminate the path of faith for you.

The disagreement between Athanasius and Arius is fundamental in Christian theology, especially in the Orthodox tradition. Saint Athanasius, a staunch defender of Orthodoxy, upheld the belief in the full divinity of Christ. He asserted that Christ is of the same essence (homoousios) as the Father, co-eternal and co-equal. This is foundational to our understanding of the Holy Trinity. In contrast, Arius, a presbyter in Alexandria, argued that the Son was a creation of the Father, and therefore not co-eternal or of the same essence. This view, known as Arianism, was deemed heretical at the First Council of Nicaea in 325 AD.

As for the terms 'Tax Christ' and 'Common Christ', they are not recognized within the Orthodox Christian tradition. Our focus remains on the Christological teachings as affirmed by the Ecumenical Councils.

Regarding conversion from Islam to Christianity, this is a profound and delicate journey. In the Orthodox faith, we encourage love, respect, and patience in all family relationships. It is crucial to maintain peace and honor within the family while steadfastly adhering to one’s newfound faith in Christ. The approach to living arrangements and family relationships should be guided by prayer, the counsel of a spiritual father, and a heartfelt commitment to living a Christ-centered life.

As the Scripture teaches us, “God is love, and whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him” (1 John 4:16). This love must be the cornerstone of all our relationships, especially within the family.

Now, beloved in Christ, how might you begin to approach these changes in your life with love and patience, while staying true to your faith in our Lord Jesus Christ?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:1990 | date:2023-11-24T21:01:10 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ Hi does the Orthodox tewahedo church believe in #cremation?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Grace and peace to you. In the Orthodox Tewahedo Church, as in the broader Orthodox Christian tradition, we uphold the sanctity and respect of the human body. This belief stems from the understanding that the body is a temple of the Holy Spirit (1 Corinthians 6:19), an integral part of the human person, created in the image and likeness of God.

Therefore, the Church does not endorse cremation. We believe in the resurrection of the body, as professed in the Nicene Creed, and thus maintain the practice of burial, honoring the body as it awaits the resurrection. This is deeply rooted in our theology and liturgical practices, reflecting our reverence for the body as an essential component of human personhood.

In this regard, the Orthodox Church encourages burial as a way of expressing hope in the resurrection and a deep respect for the gift of the body, which God has bestowed upon us. It is a practice that aligns with our understanding of life, death, and the hope of eternal life in Christ.

As you contemplate this teaching, may I ask you to reflect on how you view the body in relation to your spiritual journey? How does this understanding influence your respect for the physical aspect of our human existence, as you walk in faith towards the Kingdom of God?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1991 | date:2023-11-24T21:03:01 ---


--- id:1992 | date:2023-11-24T21:04:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #fast of the #Prophets

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you a lesson on the fast of the Prophets which starts on November 24th and ends January 6th so you can read and understand more about this fast. 

The Essence of the Prophetic Fast

In the richness of Orthodox spirituality, the Fast of the Prophets emerges as a poignant reminder of the yearning and anticipation that prefigured the incarnation of Christ. This fast, spaning 44days, mirrors the fervent prayers and ascetic lives of the prophets who, through divine inspiration, foresaw the coming of the Messiah. Their lives, steeped in prayer and fasting, were beacons pointing towards the great mystery of God becoming man for the salvation of humanity.

The Call to Spiritual Preparation

This fast is not merely an act of remembrance but a call to spiritual preparation. As the prophets prepared for the coming of Christ through fasting and prayer, so are Christians called to prepare their hearts for the celebration of His Nativity. This period of fasting is an invitation to walk in the footsteps of these holy men, allowing their prophetic visions to illuminate our path towards a deeper understanding of the mystery of the Incarnation.

The Prophetic and Apostolic Foundation

The Orthodox Church venerates the prophets and apostles as foundational to its faith. Their collective witness forms a continuum that finds its fulfillment in Christ. The Fast of the Prophets, therefore, is not only a preparation for the Nativity of Christ but also a participation in the spiritual legacy of these holy men who were instrumental in God’s salvific plan.

 Fasting: A Spiritual Discipline

Fasting, in the Orthodox tradition, is not merely an external act but a spiritual discipline aimed at inner transformation. It is a time for Christians to cultivate humility, patience, and charity, aligning their will with God’s. It serves as a reminder of our dependence on God and our need for His grace. The Fast of the Prophets, thus, becomes a journey of spiritual renewal, leading to the joyous celebration of Christ’s birth.

Prayer: The Companion of Fasting

Prayer is the breath of the soul, and in the context of fasting, it assumes an even greater significance. It is through prayer that the fast is sanctified and becomes a true offering to God. The prayers of the faithful during this period are a continuation of the prayers of the prophets, echoing their longing for the Messiah and their devotion to God’s will.

 The Universal Message of the Fast

The Fast of the Prophets transcends time and place, inviting all of humanity to partake in the spiritual preparation for the Nativity of Christ. It is a universal call to turn our hearts towards God, to reflect on the mystery of the Incarnation, and to live out the teachings of Christ in our daily lives.

 Conclusion

In conclusion, the Fast of the Prophets in the Orthodox Church is a profound spiritual journey that connects believers with the prophetic vision of the Old Testament and prepares them for the celebration of the Nativity of Christ. It is a time of prayer, fasting, and spiritual renewal, echoing the lives and messages of the prophets who foretold the coming of the Messiah. This fast serves as a reminder of the continuous journey towards spiritual awakening and the transformative power of God’s love made manifest in the Incarnation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1994 | date:2023-11-25T21:00:55 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ I am a #muslim in Pakistan. I want to convert to Christianity but if I change my religion, the muslims here will kill me. What should I do?

Answer፦ My dear child in faith, your situation is indeed a challenging and heart-wrenching one. The courage you show in seeking the truth is a testament to the stirring of the Holy Spirit within you. Remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ in the Gospel of Matthew, "Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." (Matthew 5:10). This is a profound truth to hold close to your heart.

In the history of our Orthodox faith, many have faced persecution for their belief. The early Christians, including the holy Apostles, often practiced their faith in secret due to the threat of persecution. They gathered in catacombs and private homes, away from the prying eyes of those who sought to harm them. In this, there is a lesson for us: our faith can be kept alive even in the most trying of circumstances.

You are in a delicate situation, and your safety is of utmost importance. Embrace the Christian faith in your heart, and let your journey with Christ begin internally. Read the Scriptures, pray in the privacy of your heart, and seek the Lord's guidance. You might not be able to express your faith openly, but God knows your heart and your earnest desire to follow Him.

As you grow in your faith, seek discreet ways to connect with a spiritual father or guide, perhaps even through online resources or confidential correspondence. There are many avenues in our digital age to learn about Orthodoxy and grow spiritually without putting yourself in harm's way. You can always reach out to us at anytime for any questions you may have. We also recomend that you join our Telegram or Facebook pages for more comphrehensive lessons: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

Above all, pray for guidance and protection. The Lord is a refuge for all who call on Him in truth. Your safety and well-being are paramount, and your journey towards Christ is one that can be taken with cautious, yet hopeful steps.

Now, consider this: How can you start nurturing your newfound faith in Christ within the confines of your current environment, keeping safety in mind?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1996 | date:2023-11-26T21:02:00 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Announcement 📣

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, our mission continues to grow, and as we look forward to further strengthening our services, we humbly request your involvement and support. Please reach out to us if you're interested in this opportunity. (@yohannesneseha)

We believe that with increased manpower, our reach can be extended even further, ensuring that our offerings are accessible to the global community. The area in which we currently need assistance is the following፦

👉 Social media management: We need assistance managing our social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and TikTok. This is much easier than it sounds. It's less than 1hr of engagement per week. 

We thank you in advance for your generous cooperation and encourage you to reach out to us if you're willing to be a part of this spiritual mission. Your contribution will be greatly appreciated, and we are excited about the potential to work together in the service of God and our community.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1998 | date:2023-11-27T21:02:26 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ Hello, I was wondering if wearing #makeup is considered a sin?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

In the eyes of the Orthodox Church, the focus is always on the state of the heart and the intent behind our actions, rather than the actions themselves in isolation. When it comes to wearing makeup, it is not inherently sinful. It is the intention and the manner in which it is used that matters. As Saint John Chrysostom wisely remarked, "For indeed both wine and intercourse are allowed, but both of these become a sin when they are used improperly and out of season." The same can be applied to wearing makeup.

In 1 Peter 3:3-4, we read: "Do not let your adornment be merely outward—arranging the hair, wearing gold, or putting on fine apparel—rather let it be the hidden person of the heart, with the incorruptible beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in the sight of God." This scripture invites us to reflect on our intentions. Is the makeup worn to enhance the God-given beauty and to present oneself respectfully, or is it used to draw undue attention or to cultivate vanity? It is the latter that the Church cautions against.

Remember, the Orthodox Church encourages modesty and humility in all aspects of life. Makeup, when used in moderation and with pure intentions, is not considered sinful. It is important, however, to always guard our hearts against vanity and to seek beauty that is "incorruptible" — the beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, rooted in our relationship with God.

As you reflect on this, ask yourself: How can I ensure that my outward appearance is a reflection of the inner beauty of my soul, cultivated through a life of prayer, humility, and love for God?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:1999 | date:2023-11-27T21:03:01 ---
👉 About the use of #Christmas trees

👉🏾 Question፦ Greetings, our teachers from the Yohannes Nisiha, I pray by Gods Grace you all are well. I wanted to ask a private question about the Celebration of the birth of Our Lord and why we as Orthodox Christians do not put up Christmas Trees in our homes. Many of the faithful in America are starting to use these traditions of the West and I wanted to ask is this accepted by the faith or is this a pagan practice that is against the Celebration of the Incarnation of God. Also, what traditions are encouraged by our Fathers to glorify God in the season of His Holy Birth.

Answer፦ Greetings in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,

Your query touches upon a significant aspect of our faith, especially in these times when cultures intertwine and traditions intermingle. The practice of setting up Christmas trees is indeed a Western tradition and not inherently part of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church or the broader Orthodox Christian tradition. It originated in Germany and gradually became popular in other parts of the world, including America.

In Orthodoxy, we focus on the spiritual essence of feasts, primarily through liturgy, fasting, prayer, and almsgiving. Our emphasis is on the incarnation of Christ, a mystery profoundly expressed in our liturgical celebrations. As St. John Chrysostom says, "The rich man is not one who has much, but one who gives much. For what he gives away remains his forever." This spirit of giving and self-denial is central to our commemoration of Christ's Nativity.

Regarding the Christmas tree, while it is not a traditional Orthodox practice, its use in itself is not considered a pagan or anti-Christian act, as long as it does not detract from the true meaning of the Nativity. However, as Orthodox Christians, we are called to discern and ensure that our practices align with the teachings and traditions of our Church.

Our Fathers encourage traditions that glorify God through increased prayer, participation in the Divine Liturgy, and acts of charity. These practices bring us closer to the mystery of the Incarnation. The Nativity Fast, which we observe, prepares us spiritually for the celebration of Christ's birth. We are also encouraged to read and contemplate the Scriptures, especially the Infancy narratives in the Gospels, and to engage in acts of love and kindness, reflecting the love that God showed by becoming man for our salvation.

In conclusion, while the Christmas tree is a cultural addition rather than an Orthodox tradition, what is most crucial is maintaining a focus on the Incarnation of Christ and living out the virtues that this great feast teaches us. How might you, in this blessed season, deepen your practice of the true spirit of Christ's Nativity in prayer, fasting, and acts of charity?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2003 | date:2023-11-28T21:06:01 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ How do I strengthen my relationship with God? Also, are christians able to listen to any #music at all? Like ones with any swear words or some that don’t promote christianity

Answer፦ Blessings to you on your journey seeking closeness with our Lord. The path to a deeper relationship with God is through prayer, fasting, and immersing oneself in the Holy Scriptures. As Saint John Chrysostom beautifully said, “Prayer is the light of the soul.” Therefore, to strengthen your relationship with God, dedicate time each day for prayer, reading the Bible, and reflecting on its teachings.

 Regarding music, remember the words of Apostle Paul in Philippians 4:8, “Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.” Music that contains profanity or does not promote Christian values can distract or even distance us from God. Instead, seek music that uplifts your spirit, aligns with Christian virtues, and brings you closer to God. 

Now, how will you incorporate prayer, Scripture reading, and discernment in music into your daily life to enhance your relationship with God?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2004 | date:2023-11-28T21:09:21 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ I have a very hard time forgiving people, what do you advice me? #forgiveness

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Your struggle with forgiveness resonates deeply within the teachings of our faith, and it is a common challenge faced by many, both within and outside the folds of Orthodoxy. In the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus teaches us, "For if you forgive other people when they sin against you, your heavenly Father will also forgive you." (Matthew 6:14). This verse is a cornerstone in understanding the necessity of forgiveness in our spiritual lives.

In the journey towards letting go and letting God work in our lives, we must remember that forgiveness is not merely an act of will, but a grace-filled process that transforms our hearts. It is a path walked step by step, often with much prayer and reflection. In the Orthodox tradition, we believe that this transformation is deeply connected to our participation in the life of the Church, through prayer, fasting, and partaking in the Holy Mysteries (Sacraments).

To begin, I would encourage you to seek the counsel of a spiritual father or guide. This person can help you navigate the complexities of forgiveness, offering guidance that is rooted in the rich spiritual heritage of the Orthodox Church. Additionally, regular participation in the Divine Liturgy and the sacrament of confession can be powerful aids in softening the heart and opening it to the grace of forgiveness.

As you embark on this journey, remember that forgiveness is not a sign of weakness, but a profound expression of Christ-like love and humility. It is in forgiving that we are most closely united to Christ, who forgave even those who crucified Him.

In your daily life, I would suggest setting aside time for prayer specifically focused on this struggle. Ask God for the grace to forgive, and reflect on the instances where you have been forgiven. Contemplate also the lives of saints who exemplified forgiveness, such as St. Stephen, the first martyr, who prayed for his persecutors even as they stoned him.

Finally, remember that forgiveness is a journey, not a destination. It is a process that unfolds in the heart, day by day, with each small act of letting go and entrusting the pain to God.

As you continue on this path, what steps will you take today to open your heart to the grace of forgiveness?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2013 | date:2023-11-29T21:30:01 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ Absolutely 💯 please #pray that The Lord moves the Angels of The Lord to give me direction and guidance for my destiny 🙏 Thank you so much 💓

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Your request for divine guidance and direction in your life, especially in the context of your son's challenges, is a testament to your faith and reliance on the Lord. In the book of Psalms, King David proclaims, “The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and He delights in his way” (Psalm 37:23). Trust that the Lord is indeed guiding your steps, even in times of uncertainty and difficulty.

Prayer is a powerful tool in seeking God's direction. In your daily life, set aside time for prayer, not just for requests, but also for listening to God's voice. The Holy Scriptures and the lives of the Saints are rich sources for understanding God's will and finding solace in the midst of trials.

Regarding your son, remember that each person is a unique creation of God, loved and valued. Your patience, love, and understanding towards him reflect Christ's love for us. St. John Chrysostom once said, "The family is a little Church." In your interactions with your son, you are demonstrating the virtues of patience, compassion, and unconditional love, which are at the heart of our Christian journey.

I will certainly pray for you and your family, asking the Lord to grant you wisdom, patience, and strength. Remember that you are not alone in this journey; the Church is here to support and guide you.To connect with a spiritual father, I recommend you find one who can accompany you on this journey from your local Orthodox parish, Oriental or Eastern. To learn more about the rich tradition of Orthodoxy, I encourage you to engage with our social media platforms: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

Now, dear child of God, how will you incorporate prayer and reflection into your daily routine to seek and discern God's guidance in your life?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2017 | date:2023-11-30T21:03:32 ---


--- id:2018 | date:2023-11-30T21:04:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the feast of #Zion

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today is the anual feast of Zion. Hence, let us delve into the profound significance of the Feast of Zion, a pivotal celebration in the Orthodox Tewahedo Church, marked annually on December 1st. This feast, deeply rooted in scriptural and historical contexts, intertwines the sanctity of the Ark of Zion with the reverence for the Virgin Mary, embodying the profound mysteries of faith and divine providence.

The Ark of Zion: A Testament to God's Presence

At the heart of this celebration lies the Ark of Zion, a sacred symbol of God's covenant with His people. The Ark, as recounted in the Holy Scriptures, was entrusted to Moses and later came to reside in the great city of King David. Here, it stood as a beacon of hope and justice for the suffering Israelis, a divine presence amidst their trials and tribulations.

The Feast of Zion: A Historical Perspective

The narrative of the Ark's journey, particularly its capture and eventual return, is central to the Feast of Zion. This story unfolds with the sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, whose sacrilegious actions in the temple led to dire consequences. Their disrespect towards the sacred rituals, the extinguishing of the temple lamp, and their irreverence in the presence of the Ark invoked divine wrath, fulfilling the prophecy of their simultaneous demise.

The capture of the Ark by the Philistines, a pivotal event, demonstrated the power of God even in foreign lands. The Philistine god Dagon was reduced to rubble in the presence of the Ark, and plagues afflicted the Philistines until they returned the Ark to the Israelites. This return was marked by miraculous events, reinforcing the Ark's divine nature.

The Virgin Mary: The New Ark

In Orthodox theology, the Virgin Mary is venerated as the New Ark, a living sanctuary who bore Christ, the Word made flesh. The Feast of Zion, therefore, is not only a commemoration of the historical Ark but also a celebration of Mary as the Mother of God. This linkage is beautifully encapsulated in the Psalms and the prophecies of Isaiah, which prefigure Mary as Zion, the chosen dwelling of God.

The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church and the Ark

The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church holds a unique connection to the Ark, believing it came to Ethiopia under the auspices of Queen Sheba and King Solomon. This historical belief intertwines with the scriptural narratives, enriching the spiritual tapestry of the Feast of Zion.

The Feast of Zion: A Call to Spiritual Renewal

The Feast of Zion is more than a historical commemoration; it is a call to spiritual renewal, urging the faithful to embody the virtues exemplified by the Virgin Mary. It's a time to reflect on divine justice, mercy, and the transformative power of God's presence in our lives.

Concluding Exhortation

As we observe this sacred feast, let us embrace the virtues of love, humility, and service, inspired by the Virgin Mary, the New Ark of the Covenant. May her intercession guide us, and may we find solace and strength in the enduring legacy of the Feast of Zion.

In this manner, the Feast of Zion stands as a profound testament to God's enduring presence and His unyielding commitment to His covenant with humanity. It beckons us to a deeper understanding of our faith and a renewed commitment to live out its precepts in our daily lives.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2031 | date:2023-12-02T21:00:01 ---


--- id:2032 | date:2023-12-02T21:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Almsgiving

In the Orthodox Christian tradition, almsgiving is not merely a charitable act, but a profound spiritual discipline deeply intertwined with the very essence of Christian life and faith. This practice offers a path to draw closer to God, manifest faith, and partake in the transformative journey of Christian living.

The Theology of Almsgiving in Orthodox Christianity

  1. A Reflection of Divine Love and Compassion
   - Almsgiving is an extension of God's love and mercy. As God shows boundless love and compassion towards humanity, Orthodox Christians are called to reflect this divine love through acts of charity and kindness.
   - John Chrysostom, in his sermons, emphasized that when we give alms, we become instruments of God's mercy, embodying the love of Christ in a tangible way.

  2. An Act of Spiritual Worship
   - In the Orthodox tradition, almsgiving is not just a moral duty; it is an act of worship and a part of one's spiritual life. It is a way to honor God, acknowledging that all we possess is a gift from Him, and we are merely stewards of His bounty.
   - As Chrysostom noted, almsgiving is a form of prayer and fasting, an offering made not only from our surplus but from our substance, a sacrifice pleasing to God.

  3. A Means of Spiritual Healing and Growth
   - Almsgiving serves as a means of healing the soul. It acts as a remedy for the sickness of greed and self-centeredness, fostering a spirit of generosity and humility.
   - Chrysostom eloquently stated that giving to the poor is a greater work than raising the dead, as it saves souls and transforms the giver's heart.

  4. A Witness to Faith and an Act of Evangelism
   - By engaging in almsgiving, Orthodox Christians bear witness to their faith in a practical and visible manner. This act of love and mercy can be a powerful form of evangelism, demonstrating the transformative power of the Gospel.
   - As Chrysostom pointed out, our deeds of charity shine before others, leading them to glorify God.

  5. Eschatological Significance
   - Almsgiving holds eschatological significance in Orthodox theology. It is believed that acts of charity and love have eternal value, storing up treasures in heaven.
   - Chrysostom often highlighted the eternal rewards of almsgiving, reminding believers that what is given to the poor is lent to God and will receive divine recompense.
 
Practical Aspects of Almsgiving

 1. Towards Whom?
   - Almsgiving is directed towards anyone in need, regardless of their background, religion, or social status. It is an expression of unconditional love and mercy.
   - As Chrysostom advised, we should see the image of Christ in every person in need and serve them as we would serve Christ Himself.

 2. How and What to Give?
   - Almsgiving is not limited to financial aid. It encompasses a wide range of acts of kindness, such as offering food, clothing, shelter, or even a kind word and prayer.
   - The spirit in which we give is crucial. Almsgiving should be done with humility, love, and without seeking recognition or reward.

  3. The Role of the Church
   - The Orthodox Church plays a pivotal role in facilitating and guiding almsgiving. It not only provides avenues for charitable giving but also educates and encourages the faithful in the practice of this virtue.
   - As per the teachings of Chrysostom, the Church acts as a bridge between the giver and the recipient, ensuring that the acts of charity are performed in a manner pleasing to God.

  Conclusion

In summary, almsgiving in Orthodox Christianity is a multifaceted practice with profound spiritual implications. It is a reflection of divine love, an act of worship, a means of spiritual growth, a witness to faith, and bears eternal significance.

👇👇👇

--- id:2033 | date:2023-12-02T21:03:01 ---
👆🏾👆🏾👆🏾

Practiced with a genuine heart and guided by the wisdom of the Church Fathers like John Chrysostom, almsgiving becomes a powerful expression of Christian faith and a path to draw nearer to God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2036 | date:2023-12-03T21:30:49 ---


--- id:2037 | date:2023-12-03T21:30:49 ---


--- id:2038 | date:2023-12-03T21:30:56 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ I want to know more about the #Orthodoxy. 

Answer ፦ Beloved in Christ,

I am heartened by your eagerness to learn about the Orthodox faith, a treasure of spiritual depth and ancient wisdom. In Orthodoxy, we embrace a journey of transformation, rooted in the life and teachings of Jesus Christ, and enriched by the traditions and practices developed over centuries.

One of the core tenets of Orthodoxy is the concept of *theosis*, the process of becoming more like God in our thoughts, actions, and being. This is beautifully encapsulated in 2 Peter 1:4, where it is said, "Through these he has given us his very great and precious promises, so that through them you may participate in the divine nature." This participation in the divine nature is at the heart of our spiritual path.

In the Orthodox tradition, we emphasize the importance of liturgical worship, prayer, fasting, and almsgiving, alongside a life of repentance and humility. Our liturgy is a tapestry of Scripture, prayer, and sacrament, deeply symbolic and reverent. It is in the liturgy that we encounter the living Christ and are nourished by the Holy Eucharist.

As you seek to know more about Orthodoxy, I encourage you to connect with a spiritual father or guide who can lead you in this journey. Our community offers spiritual partners who are ready to walk with you, sharing insights, answering questions, and offering the support you need.

Remember, the journey into Orthodoxy is not just about learning a set of doctrines, but about transforming your life to reflect the love and humility of Christ. 

How might you begin to explore this ancient path and open your heart to the transformative journey that awaits?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2046 | date:2023-12-05T20:30:23 ---
👉 About #salvation and #humility 

👉🏾 Question፦ Hello, I was wondering 

#1: What we are supposed to do to go to heaven? Also, is our mindset supposed to be one where we are sure/hope we are going to go to heaven (if we try to live a sacramental life, try to do what God asks, and have faith) or are we uncertain until judgment day?

#2- how do we acquire humility ?

Answer፦ Dear seeker of truth,

1. To journey towards Heaven, we embrace a life in Christ, guided by faith, repentance, and the sacraments. As St. Paul teaches us, "For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing; it is the gift of God" (Ephesians 2:8). Our mindset should be one of hopeful assurance in God's mercy, balanced with a humble awareness of our own frailty and the finality of God's judgment. We live in hope, yet with the sobriety that our final destination is known truly only by God.

2. Humility, a virtue so dear to the Orthodox heart, is acquired through constant prayer, reflection on the life and teachings of Jesus Christ, and the practice of self-denial. Remember the words of St. John Climacus: "Humility is the only virtue that no devil can imitate." In humility, we see ourselves as we truly are, reliant on God's grace. Regular confession, receiving the Eucharist, and serving others selflessly are practical steps on this path.

In your daily walk, how will you cultivate a balance of hope and humility in your spiritual life?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2053 | date:2023-12-07T04:03:54 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Eucharist  
 
(Part 4)

Respected and beloved John's repentant website members, who follow the Orthodox lesson and spiritual counsel  which we serve to provide in a daily basis; It is to be recalled that, we sent a series of sections on the basic points on the subject. Today, we have sent you the next part as follows, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.
 
1.       A person who is not present when the Liturgy begins or who doesn't follow it thoroughly by being present for the whole service is not allowed to receive the Eucharist. Likewise, a priest cannot serve in Liturgy if he isn't present before it starts. Therefore, when we plan to receive the Eucharist, we should make sure to arrive at the church before the Liturgy begins.

2.       It is necessary to focus our thoughts on the Liturgy, approach in fear of God, and most importantly, we should approach in an absolute belief to get salvation for our body and soul in the Holy Eucharist

3.       If you know the prayer to be prayed when you receive Holy Communion, you should say it in heart, or else, we should approach it in the fear of God by thinking repeatedly in our hearts that this is the flesh and blood of Christ. In the same way, when receiving it, you should say 'Amen' once on the body and twice on the blood. (Mass Apostles)

4.       According to the order of the Church, from the bishops to the deacons, to the faithful, everyone receives the Holy Communion in line according to their rank.

5.       Once after receiving the Holy flesh and blood of Jesus Christ, you should drink Holy water. This holy water is served right there for those who received Eucharist, and it represents the water that flowed from our Lord's right side while he was pierced by a spear as he was on the cross.  Then, you should cover your mouth because it helps to remember that we shouldn't discuss earthly things before we eat something (Fit Men 13 Krista 65).

6.       If possible, it is preferable for the receiver of Holy Communion to be accompanied by someone.  But this is not an obligation or a law written by the church, but from the point of view of having someone by his side to help facilitating things so that he does not face challenges. 

8.       Those who do not believe and didn't take lesson about the Holy Communion are forbidden to receive it. So, it is necessary to monitor and control this.  (Ft Men 23 Rasub 44) They should first get a lesson from their church teachers or from their father of repetance about the Mystrery of communion in advance and believe that the sacrament they receive is the flesh and blood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

9.       If a penitent person falls ill with a fatal illness before completing the period of penance, he is not prevented from receiving the Eucharist. On the other hand, a person who is in the canon of penance cannot receive Holy Communion without finishing the canon he received, unless he is in a life-threatening illness.
 
10.   A person who is tormented by a demon, a sick person, is not prevented from receiving Holy Eucharist. (Ft Men 13)
 
The precautions a Christian should take on the day he receives Holy Communion, and the Christian life he should have in his future life:
 
(Part 5 Continues)👇

--- id:2054 | date:2023-12-07T04:04:04 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy Eucharist  
 
(Continued)👆

The Precautions and Christian Life a Believer Should Follow Before and After Receiving Holy Communion.

Holy Communion signifies a commitment to follow the Orthodox Church's teachings, which should inspire us to perform good works and acts of charity. It is not a reward, but a means to receive God's grace. Preparation through confession and repentance is crucial before partaking. Holy Communion symbolizes the union between the believer and Christ, affirming our commitment to His teachings.

The main reason why we should approach Holy Communion with spiritual diligence is not because the Son of God, His holy body, or His precious blood can be defiled by anything else, but rather because we are united with His flesh and blood. We must always strive to live in a manner that avoids the obstacles that Satan, who is jealous of our salvation, places in our way to tempt us and lead us into sin. In order to save ourselves from sin, we must participate in the holy ceremony of receiving the flesh and blood of Christ, which we take for our eternal salvation. We must spend our lives in faith and conduct, doing righteous works. Christian vigilance is necessary because Satan often throws subtle obstacles in our way.

If we stumble and fall into sin after receiving Holy Communion, we must repent and confess our sins to the priest. We should stop receiving Holy Communion for the time being, complete our penance, and seek advice and guidance from the priest before resuming Holy Communion. Once we begin to receive Holy Communion, we should avoid sins and offenses that would prevent us from approaching it. If we commit a sin that should not be repeated after receiving Holy Communion, we have dishonored this great sacrament and must repent and work to strengthen our spiritual purpose.

We should not take repentance lightly or assume that we can continue to repeat the same offense. We must strive to control our thoughts and emotions, live steadfastly in morals and faith, and quickly repent if we fall into sin. We must constantly strive to strengthen our spiritual purpose in order not to be separated from the Holy Communion.

In addition, there are certain rituals and beliefs that may be common in some places but are not in accordance with the Church's canon and tradition. When we encounter doubt or confusion, we should seek guidance from the Church fathers, teachers, and scholars to clarify the true teachings of the Church. We should not be led astray by beliefs or practices that are outside of the Church's system. As St. Paul advised Timothy, "Avoid godless chatter, because those who indulge in it will become more and more ungodly" (2 Timothy 2:16).

 
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:2061 | date:2023-12-08T23:30:59 ---
👉🏾 About #confession and remittance of sins 

👉🏾 Question፦ If we just tell God directly without confessing our sins to the priest, won't he forgive us? 

Answer፦ The query at hand asks if direct confession to God, without the mediation of a priest, suffices for forgiveness. To address this, we must first understand the nature of repentance as a foundational aspect of our spiritual journey towards God. Repentance is not merely an act of acknowledging one's sins, but an invitation to a transformative relationship with God. It involves a deep realization of our fallibility, a heartfelt sorrow for our transgressions, and a commitment to change.

In this sacred process, the role of the priest is not to be underestimated. When Christ bestowed upon His apostles the authority to forgive sins (John 20:23), He established a divine mechanism through which the Church, as His body, continues His redemptive work. This apostolic succession, passed down through the priesthood, is not a mere human tradition but a divine ordinance.

Confessing to a priest, therefore, is an act of humility and obedience. It acknowledges the Church's role as the custodian of grace and the conduit of divine forgiveness. The priest acts not in his own authority but as a representative of Christ, guiding the penitent through the sacrament of reconciliation.

Consider the scriptural basis for this practice. In James 5:16, we are exhorted to confess our sins to one another. This mutual confession is a testament to the communal nature of the Church. Moreover, in Matthew 16:19, Christ's words to Peter about binding and loosing underscore the authority given to the Church in matters of sin and forgiveness.

Furthermore, the sacrament of confession brings with it the grace of spiritual guidance. A regular confessor becomes a spiritual mentor, understanding the nuances of one's struggles and providing tailored guidance. This relationship mirrors the biblical instances of spiritual mentorship, such as Nathan with David or Paul with Timothy.

In the act of confession, the penitent is not merely recounting sins to another human but standing before God in a space sanctified by His grace, mediated through the priest. This sacramental encounter ensures that forgiveness is not an abstract concept but a tangible, transformative experience.

However, this does not diminish the importance of direct prayer and confession to God. Personal prayer is crucial for cultivating a direct relationship with God. It is where we pour out our hearts, express our deepest regrets, and seek His guidance. The sacramental confession complements this personal dialogue with God, providing a formal, communal acknowledgment of our repentance.

In conclusion, while God's forgiveness is boundless and not constrained by any human intermediary, the Church, through the sacrament of confession, provides a structured, communal, and sacramental means of receiving that forgiveness. It is in this sacred space that the penitent encounters not just a priest but Christ Himself, offering healing, restoration, and a renewed path towards holiness.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:2069 | date:2023-12-09T21:16:52 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ When I #pray, my thoughts are scattered, how should I pray for my #prayer to be heard?

Answer፦ Behoved in Christ, let us delve into the profound and mystical realm of prayer, a sacred dialogue with the Divine. Prayer, in its truest essence, is not a mere utterance of words but a celestial journey of the soul, transcending the mundane to commune with the Almighty.

1. The Essence of Prayer: Prayer is the divine art through which the earthly being ascends to their heavenly nature. It is akin to a reverent conversation with God. Just as a King governs with justice, so must our prayers be rooted in humility, sincerity, and unwavering faith. As we stand before the Most High, our hearts, not just our lips, must speak.

2. Unity of Heart and Mind: True prayer emanates from the heart, with the mind and soul in harmony. When our thoughts scatter like leaves in the wind, our prayers lose their essence. Gather your thoughts, center your heart, and rise above earthly distractions to embrace the celestial embrace of the Father.

3. Simplicity and Purity: As the Gospel of Matthew (6:7-8) teaches, our prayers need not be adorned with grandeur or verbosity. A simple, contrite heart is the altar upon which true prayer is offered. God heeds not the elegance of words but the purity of spirit.

4. Prayerful Wisdom: Approach the throne of grace with a humble heart and a spirit contrite. Seek not the fleeting glories of this world but the eternal virtues of the next. Let your speech reflect goodness, shun the company of the wicked, and align not with the adversary, for our battle is spiritual.

5. The Mystery of Prayer: True prayer aligns with the mystery of the New Covenant, guided by the Fatherhood of God and enlivened by the Spirit of the Son. As believers, we gaze eastward, not to a distant deity, but to an imminent, loving Father, offering worship in awe and reverence.

6. The Purpose of Prayer: Many pray for fleeting desires, yet such prayers often remain unheard. Remember, the wisdom of the Lord surpasses our understanding. Let us submit to His will, grateful for His providence, and never lose hope. In everything, give thanks, for God's plans are perfect.

7. The Heart of Prayer: He who harbors malice cannot truly pray. "Forgive, and you will be forgiven," commands the Lord. Let us emulate His mercy, forgiving others as He forgives us, thus making our prayers a pleasing fragrance to the heavens.

8. Perseverance in Prayer: Sometimes, God's silence is a call for heartfelt prayer. Let us cast aside vain repetitions and pray earnestly. Understand that the Lord's timing is impeccable, designed for our ultimate good. Do not despair but persevere in faith.

9. Constancy in Prayer: Continual prayer is the mark of a soul aflame with divine love. The saints, consumed by this love, ceaselessly commune with God. Their prayers, like breath, are inseparable from their being, a testament to their unquenchable love for the Almighty.

10. The Cross in Prayer: As we commence our prayers, let us envelop ourselves in the sanctity of the Cross. "Believe, and you shall receive," promised our Lord. Faith is the key that unlocks the treasures of heaven.

11. The Discipline of Prayer: A Christian is called to pray seven times a day, each moment a step closer to the divine. While circumstances may constrain us, let the morning and evening be times of sacred communion with God.

12. Repentance and Renewal: True prayer is born of a repentant heart. Tears of contrition pave the way back to God. St. John the Baptist proclaimed tears as both the parent and offspring of prayer, a profound truth revealing the depth of God's love for humanity.

In these teachings, let us find the path to a prayerful life, one that ascends beyond the temporal, reaching for the divine embrace of our loving Father. May our prayers be a sweet incense, pleasing to the Lord, and may He, in His infinite mercy, hear and bless us. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

--- id:2070 | date:2023-12-09T21:16:52 ---
May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2078 | date:2023-12-11T21:31:13 ---


--- id:2079 | date:2023-12-11T21:31:16 ---


--- id:2080 | date:2023-12-11T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Sacrament of the #Eucharist

Introduction 

The Holy Eucharist, the pinnacle of Christian worship and life, stands as the true embodiment of our Lord Jesus Christ's presence among His faithful. This sacred ritual, often termed the Divine Liturgy in the Orthodox tradition, is not merely a remembrance but a living, mystical participation in the very life, death, and resurrection of Christ.

1. The Essence of the Holy Eucharist

At the heart of the Eucharist lies the profound mystery of transubstantiation, wherein bread and wine are transformed into the very Body and Blood of Christ. This is not a symbolic act but a divine reality, veiled under the forms of bread and wine. As John Chrysostom himself might say, it is through this divine banquet that heaven and earth embrace, and the faithful are invited to partake in the eternal.

2. The Sacramental Mystery

The Eucharist is called a mystery (sacramentum in Latin, mysterion in Greek) because it transcends human understanding. Its truth is apprehended not through intellectual reasoning but through the eyes of faith. In the liturgical celebration, the Church experiences a foretaste of the heavenly kingdom, a mystical participation in the eternal now of God's salvific acts.

3. The Significance of Holy Communion

The Eucharist is central to the Christian faith because it is the fulfillment of Christ's promise to be with us always (Matthew 28:20). In it, we find the true manna from heaven, the Bread of Life (John 6:35), which nourishes our souls and unites us with the divine nature.

4. The Worthy Reception of Communion

Approaching the Holy Communion demands a heart prepared through prayer, confession, and a sincere desire to amend one's life. The worthy recipient is not one who is sinless but one who recognizes their unworthiness and approaches with humility, repentance, and faith.

5. Preparation and Thanksgiving

The preparation for receiving the Eucharist involves fasting, prayer, and reconciliation with others, reflecting an inner disposition of humility and love. Post-communion, the faithful are called to carry the grace received into the world, living out the Gospel in deeds of love and service.

The Eucharistic Celebration: An Encounter with the Living Christ

The Divine Liturgy is a journey that begins with repentance and culminates in the mystical supper. It is in this sacred meal that the Church experiences the Paschal Mystery of Christ: His suffering, death, resurrection, and glorious ascension. The bread and wine, offered in faith, become by the Holy Spirit the very Body and Blood of Christ.

The Anamnesis: Remembering the Saving Acts of Christ

In the Eucharistic prayer, the Church recalls the life-giving events of Christ's incarnation, death, and resurrection. This memorial (anamnesis) is not a mere recollection but makes present the realities of these salvific events. Through it, the faithful are united with Christ's one, perfect, and sufficient sacrifice on the Cross.

Communion: The Pledge of Future Glory

In receiving the Eucharist, Christians are mystically united with Christ and with one another, forming the Body of Christ, the Church. This communion is a foretaste of the eschatological banquet, the heavenly feast in the Kingdom of God.

Conclusion: The Eucharist as the Source and Summit of Christian Life

The Holy Eucharist stands at the center of Orthodox Christian life. It is the source from which all grace flows and the summit to which all Christian action is directed. In it, the Church finds her identity and mission, to be the sacrament of Christ in the world, proclaiming the Good News and manifesting the Kingdom of God in love, service, and sanctity.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2084 | date:2023-12-12T21:02:01 ---


--- id:2085 | date:2023-12-12T21:02:01 ---


--- id:2086 | date:2023-12-12T21:02:14 ---


--- id:2087 | date:2023-12-12T21:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Entry of the Most Holy #Theotokos, the Virgin #Mary, into the Temple

In the Orthodox Christian tradition, the Entry of the Most Holy Theotokos into the Temple stands as a beacon of divine grace and a testament to unwavering faith. This significant event, celebrated with reverence on December 3rd, encapsulates not only a historical moment but also profound theological truths that offer guidance and inspiration to the faithful.

The Divine Providence in the Birth of Theotokos

The narrative begins with Hannah, a woman of deep faith, yet marked by the pain of barrenness. Her fervent prayers and vows were not merely for the gift of motherhood, but for a child who would be dedicated to the divine service. The birth of Mary, the Theotokos, thus emerges not as a mere biological occurrence but as a fulfillment of divine will and human longing. The early life of Mary, spent in her parents' home, was under the shadow of this divine promise, as foretold by Prophet David in Psalm 85:13.

The Sanctification of Theotokos in the Temple

At the tender age of three, Mary was presented at the Temple, signifying her consecration to God. This act of her parents, Joachim and Anna, was a profound gesture of faith, symbolizing the return of God's gift to His divine purpose. The high priest Zacharias, recognizing the gravity and sanctity of this moment, welcomed Mary into the Temple. Her time in the Temple was not just a period of seclusion; it was a preparation for her role in the divine plan, nurtured by heavenly grace, as mirrored in the sustenance provided to Prophet Elijah (1 Kings 1:1-8) and the miraculous feast for Christ's disciples (John 21:9).

The Maturation of Theotokos in Divine Wisdom

In the temple, Mary grew in wisdom and grace, untouched by worldly distractions. Her life was a continuous ascent towards divine communion, embodying the psalmist's words in Psalm 44:10. However, as per divine plan, her temple stay was to conclude. At the age of fifteen, a significant transition awaited her – moving from the Temple to the house of Joseph. This was not a mere relocation but a step towards fulfilling her role in the salvation history.

The Protection of Theotokos through Joseph

The transition to Joseph's house was necessitated by two crucial reasons. Firstly, it was to protect Mary from the harsh consequences of societal judgment and law, as per Torah's dictates, if her miraculous conception became known (Matthew 1:16-22). Secondly, Joseph was divinely chosen to be her guardian and protector, a role he assumed with divine grace and humility.

The Betrothal to Joseph: A Divine Strategy

The betrothal of Mary to Joseph was not a mere social arrangement; it was laden with profound theological significance. It served as a divine strategy to safeguard the sanctity and the human lineage of Mary. This betrothal was a counter to future heretical claims and a testament to Christ's true human descent from Adam, thus affirming His incarnation.

The Theological Implications

This event is not just a historical account but a reflection of deep theological truths. It demonstrates the intertwining of human faithfulness and divine providence. The life of Theotokos in the Temple symbolizes a life devoted to God, marked by purity and preparation for God's calling. Her betrothal to Joseph illustrates the intertwining of divine wisdom with human history.

Conclusion: A Beacon of Faith and Devotion

The Entry of the Most Holy Theotokos into the Temple is a narrative that goes beyond its historical context. It is a testament to the divine-human synergy where human actions align with divine will. For the faithful, it stands as a beacon of hope, a call to purity, and an invitation to participate in the divine plan through faith and devotion. It is a story that resonates with the timeless call to holiness and the mystery of divine incarnation, echoing through the annals of Orthodox Christian tradition.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

--- id:2088 | date:2023-12-12T21:04:01 ---
May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2090 | date:2023-12-13T21:15:29 ---
👉 About #makeup

👉🏾 Question፦ Greetings! 

If you are a priest, bless and absolve me father. I hope this finds you well. Please don’t see below as an attack I just had a concern about something in the John’s Repentance group that I needed to address. 

I saw the answer to the makeup question in Johns repentance and was a bit confused. Everything I’ve learned from so far with teachings of the fathers and other writings have taught me that it is in fact something we are not supposed to take part in at all. I’m concerned by the answer because it allows for a small but possibly dangerous leeway for us as women and girls to think it’s ok when in fact it’s not and does no good for us whether in body or soul. Can you kindly please tell me which church fathers or which books you cite that agree with your stance that it’s ok as long as the intention is pure?

Here are some sources I’ve learned from that say otherwise.

“He commits a serious offense who adulterates the work of God. It is a serious charge to suppose that man is to be preferred to God as an artist! It is serious, indeed, when God has to say this about you: 'I do not recognize My colors or My image, not even the countenance which I have made. What is not Mine I reject. Take up your abode with him who has painted you. Seek your favors from him to whom you have given payment.' What will be your reply?” St Ambrose

Apostolic Constitutions book 1 par 8 (400 ad)
Do not paint thy face, which is God's workmanship; for there is no part of thee which wants ornament, inasmuch as all things which God has made are very good. But the lascivious additional adorning of what is already good is an affront to the bounty of the Creator.

Answer፦ Blessings and peace to you in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,

Thank you for bringing your concerns forward with a spirit of inquiry and faithfulness. In the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, we hold dear the teachings of our Fathers and the sacred traditions that have been entrusted to us. Your question regarding makeup is an important one, as it relates to how we present ourselves before God and others.

As you rightly pointed out, our Church Fathers, including St. Ambrose and others, have spoken about the dangers of adorning oneself in ways that detract from the natural beauty that God has bestowed upon us. In the spirit of their teachings, the use of makeup should be approached with great caution and discernment.

The Apostolic Constitutions reminds us that our primary adornment should be the "hidden person of the heart," as noted in 1 Peter 3:3-4. The focus is on cultivating inner beauty — a beauty that reflects our devotion, humility, and love for God.

While the previous answer mentioned that makeup is not inherently sinful, it is crucial to emphasize that in our tradition, simplicity and naturalness in appearance are valued highly as expressions of humility and purity of heart. The use of makeup can easily lead to vanity and a focus on external appearances, which is contrary to the spirit of Orthodox Christian living.

Therefore, in alignment with the teachings of our Church Fathers, I would advise caution and restraint in the use of makeup, always examining one's intentions and seeking to glorify God in all things, including our appearance. However blindly labeling makeup as sin without analyzing the situation would not be fully aligned with the Church's definition of sin.  

In this regard, consider how you can cultivate the beauty of your soul through prayer, fasting, and acts of charity. How might your outward appearance reflect the inner transformation that is taking place in your heart as you draw nearer to God?

May the peace of Christ guide your heart and mind in all things. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2099 | date:2023-12-15T21:15:01 ---


--- id:2100 | date:2023-12-15T21:16:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #marriage 

Behoved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, let us delve into a comprehensive lesson about marriage. This exploration aims to imbue the reader with deep understanding and reverence for the sacred institution of marriage as seen through the Orthodox Christian perspective.

The Essence of Marriage: A Divine Union

Marriage, as understood in Orthodox Christianity, is not merely a social contract or a means to personal fulfillment. It is a holy sacrament, an eternal bond sanctified by God. In the Orthodox tradition, marriage symbolizes the mystical union between Christ and the Church, as articulated by St. Paul in his Epistle to the Ephesians (5:25-32). It is a path towards holiness, a journey that spouses embark upon together, aiding each other in their spiritual growth and salvation.

The Purpose of Marriage: Beyond the Mundane

Orthodox Christianity teaches that the purpose of marriage extends beyond companionship and procreation. While these are significant aspects, the true purpose lies in the spiritual edification of both partners. Marriage is a vocation to love as Christ loves, sacrificially and unconditionally. It's a call to nurture not only children but also the fruits of the Spirit within each other – love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control (Galatians 5:22-23).

Choosing a Spouse: A Discerning Heart

In selecting a life partner, the Orthodox faith emphasizes the importance of spiritual compatibility. It's not merely about finding someone with shared interests or attractions but about finding a partner who shares a commitment to Christ and His Church. This spiritual congruence forms the bedrock of a marriage that can withstand the trials and tribulations of life.

Marital Challenges: Perseverance Through Faith

Marriage, in its truest Orthodox essence, is not free from challenges. However, these trials are seen as opportunities for growth and deepening of faith. The Church teaches that through mutual sacrifice, forgiveness, and unconditional love, couples can mirror the love of Christ. In times of conflict, turning to prayer, the sacraments, and the guidance of spiritual fathers can be invaluable.

The Role of Community and Tradition

In Orthodox Christianity, marriage is not just a union of two individuals but a communal sacrament. The Church, the body of Christ, plays a vital role in supporting and nurturing marital relationships. The rich traditions and rituals of the Orthodox wedding ceremony, such as the crowning and the common cup, symbolize the deep spiritual truths of marriage – sovereignty in serving one another and sharing life’s joys and sorrows.

Eternal Perspective: Marriage as a Journey to the Kingdom

Ultimately, Orthodox marriage is viewed in the light of eternity. It’s a journey towards the Kingdom of Heaven, where each spouse helps the other in their path to salvation. This eternal perspective infuses every aspect of married life with profound significance and purpose.

In conclusion, marriage in the Orthodox Christian sense is a sacred journey of love, sacrifice, and spiritual companionship. It's a covenant blessed by God, intended for the mutual salvation of the spouses and the glorification of His holy name. May this exploration of Orthodox marriage inspire and guide those seeking to understand and embody its true essence.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2105 | date:2023-12-19T03:00:07 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

👉🏾 Question from member: I often feel depressed and lonely. Life has no meaning to me, I just want to die and live with Jesus, I've been looking for happiness all my life but I can't find it, I feel like my mind is going to explode, please pray for me, I need prayer, what do you recommend?

✍️Answer:- Why does a person choose loneliness? Why does a person hide? In essence, man is not happy without God, because there is no peace without God. Jesus Christ said in the Gospel of John, chapter 14, verse 27, "Peace I leave with you, and my peace I give you, the peace I give you is not as the world gives; do not let your hearts be troubled, do not be afraid."
 
The world kisses us today then bites tomorrow; gives today then takes away tomorrow. But God does not take away what He has given, no matter what, there is no peace without God. What is life? Life is the opposite of death, life is living. Life is God, it is written, "Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life."
 
Therefore, if we believe in the Son, we live with Jesus who is the life. It is Jesus Christ who gave life when human beings could not live according to the commandment, it is Jesus Christ who enlightened the dark world. In fact, this Christmas (birth) season is called the light. And if it is said who is the light: it is Jesus Christ.

This world was dark before God the Son became a man. The world lived in darkness. It is called light because God became a man and enlightened the world by making us members of His body. Many people's lives are in darkness. Darkness is sin, darkness is betrayal, darkness is hatred, darkness is lack of love; On the other hand, light is Jesus Christ, light is life, light is religion, light is peace, light is help, blessing and love. Because it is our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who gave us that, there is no life without Jesus Christ.
 
As the owner himself told us, John Gospel chapter 15 verse 5 said "without me you can do nothing", so without Jesus Christ nothing can be done. How can peace be found without Jesus Christ? How can you live? Absolutely not possible. When Judas betrayed Jesus Christ for 30 dollars he died because he was separated from Jesus Christ who is life. We remember that when the devil was once the archangel, when he forgot God and said, "I am the creator," and then failed and separated from God who is life.

Also, when Adam lived peacefully in paradise for seven years and did what he was told not to do, he lost peace from God who is life, and found it difficult to live. but then we remember that he found peace when he returned to God, when he reconciled with God, so there is no peace without God.
 
Our questioner said that they want to die and live with Jesus Christ. So, those of us who do not have peace on earth, those who have fallen into sin on earth, those who have not tried to repent to find Jesus Christ, how can we find peace if we die? What qualifies us for the kingdom of heaven is the work we have done on earth to live with Jesus Christ and enable us to live in heaven. If we die on earth covered in sin, without repentance, confession, and reconciliation with God, we will not be able to live with Jesus. Therefore, it means that we cannot live with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ before we repent. 

(to be continued)👇

--- id:2106 | date:2023-12-19T03:03:02 ---
An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

(continued part)👆👇

Our dear member told us that their mind is going to explode. It is God who gives us peace of mind. 
The mind wants shelter, it wants peace but the conscience blames it. For example, a person knows that stealing is bad before learning to steal, knows that killing is bad before learning to kill. Our consciousness tells us what is good and bad because that is the way it was created; Man is a creature created to distinguish good from evil, evil from good, and what is useful from what is not. 

Therefore, we must all seek life, and if we are willing to find life, we can repent of our sins and find God; God is near, God is love. "You return and I will return," God is not a cruel father who tells you to stay where you left. What He told us is  those of you who have fallen come back to me, . God is a compassionate and merciful father.
 
First He created us in His image, we humans failed to live, we fell, we were the kings of creation but because of our sin we fell from our glory; He came back in search of us, born of the Holy Virgin Mary as a man. After that, he paid many prices for us, to bring back our exiled ones, he was exiled for us, then He was whipped with 6666 lashes, crucified in the square of Calvary, to bring us back what we lost and even more. He gave us his holy body and his precious blood. Eat my flesh, drink my blood, that he may bring us back with food that we have fallen by eating, there is no greater life than this.

Even after He has conquered death,  He told us that  if you fall into sin, even if you make a mistake, repent and come to Me. Therefore, what is needed to live with God is to persevere in his house until the end, it is necessary to continuously take part of his holy body and his precious blood, the Eucharist. 
 
As we have said so far, life means living with God, and what is needed to live with God is to first repent. Therefore, may God help us all who have fallen into sin to repent, stay in the house until the end of our lives, receive His holy body and his precious blood, and live with God in his house.
 
Praise be to God, the Virgin Mother and the cross.
 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:2109 | date:2023-12-20T02:31:09 ---


--- id:2110 | date:2023-12-20T02:31:09 ---


--- id:2111 | date:2023-12-20T02:31:09 ---


--- id:2112 | date:2023-12-20T02:31:09 ---


--- id:2113 | date:2023-12-20T02:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Holy #Eucharist and  and about our Lady #Virgin #Mary
 
Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the topic mentioned above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

"I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever, and the bread that I give for the life of the world is my body." (John 6:51)
 
This word speaks of the body of Christ in which eternal life is found. And this flesh was obtained from the Virgin Mary. The Gospel of John begins as follows: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God... and the Word became flesh" (John 1:1 and 14). When he said, "The Word became flesh," he is actually confirming that the Son of God came down from the heavens to save the fallen Adam, took the flesh from the Virgin Mary's body, and the soul from her soul, and appeared as a man. This is God who became man. Because, in the Old Testament (before God appeared in the flesh), God asked Adam, "Where are you, Adam?" / Gen. 3:10/ After making him tell his whereabouts, He gave him a promise of salvation, "I will be born from your grandson and save you" (Klemenitus).

Later, when the time came, the angel Gabriel was sent to the Virgin Mary and said to her, "Behold, you will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will call his name Jesus, and he will be great." He is also called the son of the innocent. (Luke 1:1-3) Holding this word, when we refer back what Isaiah said in his prophecy, "...therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign, behold, a virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and she will call his name Immanuel." He says. (Isaiah 7:14)

The Lord Jesus also taught extensively about Bread from Heaven (John 6: 22-59). His teachings of ‘Bread from Heaven’ are the basis for Mystery of Holy Eucharist. St John the Evangelist summarized this as follows: “Most assuredly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink His blood, you have no life in you. Whoever eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. For My flesh is food indeed, and My blood is drink indeed. He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood abides in Me, and I in him.” (John 6:53-56). This eternal word remains to be the core theology of mystery of Holy Eucharist.

Jesus Christ, when he taught about his holy body and his precious blood, which was begotten from the Virgin Mary, united and given to the world for salvation, he said, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you." (John 6:53).
All those who eat and drink the flesh and blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, who was crucified on Friday to save us, will inherit the kingdom. The holy body and the noble blood given to the world for salvation is from the Virgin Mary. This is why we call her the cause of salvation (sign of salvation) in our teaching about the Virgin Mary.
 
Also, the prophet Isaiah said, 'Lord God will give you a sign', then using a connecting word "behold", he continued saying a virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, God has revealed to the house of David that the sign for the revelation of the Messiah and the salvation of mankind is a virgin and that she will conceive as a virgin. Later, when the prophecy was fulfilled while angel Gabriel was sent from God "to a virgin," the evangelist Lukas wrote in connection with the words of the prophet Isaiah, "and the virgin's name was Mary" (Luke 1:27).
 
This is why we say that the Virgin Mary is the origin and manifestation of the sacrament. Without having her, without believing that she is the Mother of God, without believing in her purity, her virginity, her glory and her intercession, it is not possible to receive Holy Communion, it is not possible to receive the sacrifice of the faithful.

(Part 2 Continues )👇

--- id:2114 | date:2023-12-20T02:36:02 ---
(Part Four)

Therefore, it means to believe that Christ is the Son of God and the Son of Man, that He is a perfect God and a perfect man, and that He is a God who is a man without changing. Believing this and being baptized is a confirmation of our faith. Believing means accepting, for baptism means trusting. Baptism is performed in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. (Mathew 28:19) When Christ himself told those who were called Christians what their lives should be like, he said to them, "Learn from me, for I am meek and lowly in heart." (Matthew 11:29) Therefore, Christianity means believing in Christ's divinity, being baptized in his name, and living the life that Christ lived. 

” But this thing commanded I them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people: and walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well unto you.” Jeremiah 7:23

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:2116 | date:2023-12-20T22:45:14 ---


--- id:2117 | date:2023-12-20T22:46:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Yared 

Beloved brethren in Christ, may the grace and peace of God be upon you all. Today, we gather together to commemorate and celebrate the life and legacy of the esteemed Saint Yared of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Let us delve into the profound teachings and experiences of this great scholar and draw valuable lessons for our own spiritual journey.

Born in the year 505 A.D., near the ancient city of Axum, Saint Yared's upbringing was marked by an early struggle to grasp education. As a young child, he faced difficulties in understanding his studies, which left him disheartened. His mind, however, was captivated by the love for the Virgin Mary and her divine Son. One fateful day, his teacher remarked that he lacked color, insinuating his inability to comprehend the lessons. When tested, young Yared failed to respond and was consequently beaten.

The pain of the punishment deeply affected him, prompting Saint Yared to distance himself from his teacher. Exhausted, he sought refuge in the Mai Kirah area and, in his weariness, received a divine revelation from God. The Lord taught him the importance of perseverance and unwavering effort. Encouraged by this divine guidance, Saint Yared returned to his teacher, sought forgiveness, and resumed his education with renewed determination. He diligently applied himself to his studies and devoted himself to prayer, seeking communion with God.

In His infinite mercy, God blessed Saint Yared with a profound spiritual experience through the intercession of the Virgin Mary. The mysteries that had previously eluded him were unveiled, and he received divine insights and understanding. During his prayers, when heavenly hyms had not yet been revealed, three angels, in the form of birds, appeared before him and spoke to him, granting him their divine counsel.

Reinvigorated by this encounter, Saint Yared returned to the earthly realm, filled with inspiration and gratitude. He offered his thanksgiving in Axum Zion, where the people and the king marveled at the depth and beauty of his spiritual compositions. Saint Yared served diligently in Axum and Debre Damo, ascending to higher spiritual heights with each passing day. Eventually, he left his homeland, aspiring to join the company of the Virgin Mary and the heavenly host.

Throughout the remainder of his life, Saint Yared authored five significant books, leaving a profound legacy for future generations. He established centers of learning and spiritual instruction in Tana Kirkos, Zur Amba, and other locations, where he nurtured and mentored numerous disciples. Saint Yared's contributions to Ethiopian Orthodox Church music are characterized by three distinct types of songs: Geez, Ezl, and Ararai.

The Geez songs, meaning "found first," represent liberation, reminding us of the freedom we find in Christ. The Ezl songs, comprising thirty melodies sung in conjunction with Geez or Tazlo Ezl, inspire fortitude and endurance in the face of trials. Lastly, the Ararai songs, characterized by a melancholic and tender melody, represent the Holy Spirit, who comforts and emboldens believers.
Within Saint Yared's musical compositions, we encounter various symbols that add depth and richness to the musical expression. The "Difat" (ድፋት) symbolizes the descent of Christ from heaven, encouraging us to humbly submit to God's will. The "Hidet" (ሂደት) symbol, exemplified by the Lord's earthly ministry, urges us to continue our journey without hindrance, following in His footsteps.
Furthermore, the "Kinat" (ቅናት) symbol instructs us to lift our heads and proclaim the truth boldly, just as Christ did when confronted by His accusers. The "Yizet" (ይዘት) symbol, observed when a song is read swiftly, reminds us of the Lord's arrest by the Jews. The "Kurt" (ቁርጥ) symbol calls for strength and resilience, likening it to Christ's decision to endure suffering for the redemption of humanity.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:2118 | date:2023-12-20T23:48:02 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

We also encounter the "Chiret" (ጭረት) symbol, which denotes a quick movement within the melody, reflecting the urgency and swiftness of God's action. The "Rikrik" (ርክርክ) symbol encourages us to lengthen our spiritual melodies, reminding us of the eternal sacrifice of Christ and the abundant grace He bestows upon us. Lastly, the "Deret" (ደረት) symbol, characterized by a powerful and resounding voice, signifies the Lord's ascension, urging us to exalt and proclaim His glory.

Let us now explore some of the notable compositions of Saint Yared. "Dgwa,"(ድጓ) a song offered on Sundays and annual holidays, encompasses the Eucharistic celebration and conveys the profound mystery and joy of the Holy Communion. "Tsome Dgwa" (ጾመ ድጓ) refers to a specific variant of the song sung during the period of Abiy Lent, incorporating verses from Zawadah-Hosanna.
Another remarkable composition is "Zimare," (ዝማሬ) which is performed after the Eucharist. "Mwaset"(መዋሥዕት) is a prayer for the departed, sung during funerals, while "Mieraf" (ምዕራፍ) is a composition sung in every chapter, symbolizing a place of rest. The works of Saint Yared are intricate and carry profound spiritual significance, inviting us to explore the depths of our faith.
Saint Yared's spiritual journey continued as he traveled extensively, leaving an indelible mark on the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Saint Yared with his disciples Sawira, Eskender and Menker, embarked on a journey to the north, Semen Berh. They carried their hymn books and lived in the monastery by teaching hymns in the northern monastery. 

In one particularly extraordinary incident, Saint Yared entered the Axum Zion Church and placed his hands upon the sacred coffin. With a voice filled with reverence and awe, he uttered these words: "You are holy, you are blessed, you are praised; You are blessed. You are exalted, you are the ladder of light." As he recited his composition called "Anketse Berhan," (አንቀጸ ብርሃን) while singing the Ezl song, he ascended about an arm's length towards the heavens. This miraculous event left the psalmists astounded, and Saint Yared imparted his final words of guidance and farewell before retreating to a hidden cave, disappearing from this earthly realm.

On the 11th of May, in the year 571 A.D., at the age of 66, Saint Yared departed from this temporal existence, leaving behind a spiritual legacy that continues to inspire and uplift the faithful even to this day.

Dear brethren, as we reflect upon the life of Saint Yared, let us draw valuable lessons for our own spiritual journey. His unwavering commitment to education and perseverance in the face of challenges remind us of the importance of continuous learning and growth in our faith. Saint Yared's profound spiritual experiences and revelations underscore the transformative power of prayer and communion with God.

Through his hymnodical compositions and symbols, Saint Yared invites us to elevate our worship, allowing our voices and melodies to be a conduit for spiritual expression. His compositions, rich with deep meaning and divine inspiration, serve as a reminder of the beauty and majesty of our Orthodox tradition.

May we be inspired by the life and teachings of Saint Yared, remembering the importance of perseverance, unwavering faith, and an ardent pursuit of divine knowledge. Let us strive to cultivate a deep and vibrant spiritual life, expressing our devotion to God through worship and service. May Saint Yared's legacy continue to resonate within our hearts and guide us on our journey towards eternal communion with our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2120 | date:2023-12-22T03:46:12 ---


--- id:2121 | date:2023-12-22T03:46:12 ---


--- id:2122 | date:2023-12-22T03:46:12 ---


--- id:2123 | date:2023-12-22T03:46:47 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Michael 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today is the monthly feast of St. Michael. Hence let us read the below text written about him and partake from his blessings. 

St. Michael, whose name echoes the divine query, "Who is like God?" stands as a beacon of divine strength and leadership. This mighty Archangel, esteemed in the heavenly hierarchy, is not merely a celestial being but also a symbol of hope and fortitude for the faithful. His role transcends the boundaries of heaven, extending his protective mantle over the faithful on earth.

Let us recall the ancient scriptures and the teachings of the Church Fathers, who spoke of St. Michael with reverence and awe. His presence in pivotal moments of Biblical history underscores his importance. When Joshua, leading the Israelites in the wilderness, encountered a divine figure with a drawn sword, it was none other than St. Michael, the captain of the Lord's host. This encounter, as narrated in the Book of Joshua, reveals the martial and protective aspects of St. Michael's character.

In the exodus from Egypt, where the Israelites were led from bondage to freedom, St. Michael was the guiding light, the angelic shepherd appointed by God Himself to safeguard His people. His role was not only as a guide but also as a guardian, ensuring the fulfillment of God's promises.

Furthermore, in the prophetic visions of Daniel, St. Michael emerges as a powerful intercessor and protector of the faithful. He is depicted as the great prince who stands guard over God's people, a testament to his enduring role in the salvation history.

In the New Testament, St. Michael's presence is equally profound. His role in the cosmic struggle against evil and his intercession for the faithful before the throne of God are themes that resonate throughout Christian theology.

The Orthodox Church, in its liturgical and theological tradition, has always held St. Michael in high esteem. His commemoration on the twelfth day of each month is not merely a ritualistic observance but a testament to his ongoing intercessory role. The Church teaches that St. Michael's prayers bring about the blessings of nature: the timely rains, the fruitful earth, the gentle winds—all are seen as manifestations of his intercession.

In our daily struggles and in the greater spiritual battle against sin and temptation, let us turn to St. Michael for guidance and protection. His example inspires us to stand firm in our faith, to confront the adversities of life with courage, and to remain steadfast in our devotion to God.

As we honor St. Michael, let us remember that his story is not just a tale from the past but a living reality that permeates the life of every Orthodox believer. In our prayers and in our actions, let us emulate his unwavering faith and his unceasing devotion to the will of God. May his intercession strengthen us, may his example guide us, and may his presence among us be a source of comfort and hope.

Thus, beloved in Christ, let us embrace the lessons and the legacy of the Archangel St. Michael. May his blessings be upon us, and may his intercession lead us closer to the divine. In his honor and memory, let us say, "Archangel Michael, pray for us, that we may be worthy of the promises of Christ." Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2126 | date:2023-12-23T01:10:35 ---


--- id:2127 | date:2023-12-23T01:10:35 ---


--- id:2128 | date:2023-12-23T01:10:35 ---


--- id:2129 | date:2023-12-23T01:12:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Our Lord and Savior #Jesus #Christ 

Jesus Christ as God

The Orthodox Church firmly upholds the belief in the divinity of Jesus Christ. This belief is rooted in numerous scriptural references and is a cornerstone of Christian faith. The recognition of Jesus as God incarnate is not merely a theological concept but a profound truth that underpins the entirety of Christian doctrine and life.

1. Divinity and Incarnation:
 In John 1:1-14, the Scripture clearly states, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." The Word becoming flesh and dwelling among us is the central mystery of the Christian faith. This incarnation is not just a divine visitation but God Himself entering into human history.

2. The Resurrection:
The resurrection of Christ is not just a testament to His power over death but also a confirmation of His divinity. As Paul writes in Romans 1:4, Jesus was "declared to be the Son of God with power according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead."

The Good Shepherd

Christ's role as the Good Shepherd is a powerful image in Orthodox spirituality. It speaks of His loving and protective care for His flock, the Church.

1. Sacrificial Love:
 In John 10:11, Jesus says, "I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep." This is not just a metaphor but a reality that culminated in the crucifixion, where Christ sacrificed Himself for the redemption of humanity.

2. Guidance and Protection:
The image of Christ as a shepherd also symbolizes His guidance and protection. In the turmoil and challenges of life, Christ, the Good Shepherd, guides His flock towards salvation and peace.

The Resurrection and Ascension

The resurrection and ascension of Christ are central to Orthodox theology, symbolizing the defeat of death and the hope of eternal life.

1. Victory over Death:
Christ's resurrection is the triumph over death, not just His own, but for all who believe in Him. As Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15:55-57, "O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?"

2. The Ascension:
The ascension of Christ, as witnessed in Acts 1:9-11, is not just a physical rising but a theological affirmation of His Lordship over all creation. It is a promise of His return and the establishment of His Kingdom in fullness.

Judgment and Salvation

The Orthodox understanding of judgment and salvation is deeply connected to the person and work of Jesus Christ.

1. Christ as Judge:
In the Orthodox tradition, Christ is not only the Savior but also the Judge. As stated in 2 Corinthians 5:10, "For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ."

2. Salvation through Christ:
Salvation in Orthodox theology is understood as a process of theosis, becoming partakers of the divine nature (2 Peter 1:4). This process is made possible through Christ, who, being both fully God and fully man, bridges the gap between humanity and God.

Conclusion

It is essential to remember that the knowledge of Christ is not merely academic but transformative. The life, teachings, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ are not just historical events but realities that have a profound impact on our lives. As Orthodox Christians, we are called to live in the light of these truths, embodying the love, sacrifice, and hope that Christ Himself has shown us.

This exploration provides just a glimpse into the rich tapestry of Orthodox theology and Christology. It invites the reader to delve deeper into the mystery of Christ, a journey that leads to spiritual growth and a deeper understanding of the divine.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2134 | date:2023-12-24T23:45:17 ---


--- id:2135 | date:2023-12-24T23:45:17 ---


--- id:2136 | date:2023-12-24T23:45:17 ---


--- id:2137 | date:2023-12-24T23:46:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 God is revealed through His #saints

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; We have sent you the following important lesson about the unity between Christ and the Church so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

To speak of saints is to speak of God. Fire manifests itself in wood. The life of the saints is also a manifestation of God. Saint Paul said: "I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ lives in me. He explained to us that it is Christ who dwells in the saints. Galatians 2:20. In his message, Saint John said, "Hereby we know that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit." : 1st John 4:13. What Christ revealed in the Holy Word, "At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you..." (John 14:20). This is why the apostles and the holy fathers who succeeded them said, "I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen." Matthew 28:20. This is when he told them that he will always be with them forever. It is when St. Paul asserts this that he says, "Christ lives in me." The righteousness of the saints not only for their souls, but also for their bodies, and for their clothes, because the clothes of St. Paul used to heal the sick. Acts 9:11 When he lived on earth for three years and six months, for Christ We are not told that the shadow of his garment healed the sick, but it was said about St. Paul. Because it was Christ himself who stayed with Paul, the sick were healed by Christ. Paul, whom Christ honored and chose, caused the sick to be healed.
 
Our Lord, `Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do'' (John 14:12), the promise he made to the saints is bound to be fulfilled. It is not said that the creature is greater than the creator and performs more miracles. Instead, when Christ Jesus was revealed in the flesh, he indicated that he would perform the miracle that he had not performed in three years and six months, on the saints until the end of time. When our Lord said, "He who believes in me", he means he who believes that he is a divine being who has become a human being. This means that he who believes that He is one with his Father's nature- the Father and his life with the Holy Spirit , in character, existence, power, will, and divinity.  But not the one who just calls his holy name in vain. But the one who truly believes like this said, "He will do the works that I do (the miracles that I have done"). the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. Whosoever eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him." (John 6:53-56) It means that as fire melts iron, so I will live by grace.
 
Saint Paul, the light of the world, said, "Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ." 1st Cor 11:1 Why don't we say Christ directly? Is it difficult for him to say 'be like Christ?' it's not! Everything that Paul did was done by Christ, because Christ himself is in Paul. If it is said that the holy believers stood on one foot and prayed for seven years, it was Christ who did it through them, but a creature cannot do that by itself. But the Lord who dwells in the saints is omnipotent, so he also made them omnipotent. We also say with understanding, "O God of Abune Takle Haimat, glory and praise be to you," ; but we cannot say "Why did you do this on him?"  .

(Continued) 👇

--- id:2138 | date:2023-12-24T23:49:01 ---
God Reveals in Saints

(Part 2)

God said to Abraham 'And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:' (Genesis 12:2) is because praising Abraham is praising God who is in him. And to oppose Abraham is to oppose God, who dwells in him (and works in him). To praise the saints is to praise God, who is devoted to them (working in him). To praise Abraham is to praise oneself.

God said to Abraham 'And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:' (Genesis 12:2) is because praising Abraham is praising God who is in him. And to oppose Abraham is to oppose God, who dwells in him (and works in him). To praise the saints is to praise God, who is devoted to them (working in him). To praise Abraham is to praise oneself. Because someone praised or cursed Abraham, God did not directly say, "Blessed or cursed." When one praises Abraham, at the same moment he himself is praised. When he curses Abraham, he himself is cursed at the same moment. It is the living God whose word does not change. This is why it is said that praising the saints is praising God. Praising Abraham and praising the saints is only beneficial to oneself. Their God has praised and honored them more than they can, so our thanks are nothing to them. Abraham's God, who said, "I will bless those who bless you," is with them, so if we thank them, we are the ones who are thankful in return.
 
👉Why does Christ appear to the saints?
 
Because someone praised or cursed Abraham, God did not directly say, "Blessed or cursed." When one praises Abraham, at the same moment he himself is praised. When he curses Abraham, he himself is cursed at the same moment. It is the living God whose word does not change. This is why it is said that praising the saints is praising God. Praising Abraham and praising the saints is only beneficial to oneself. Their God has praised and honored them more than they can, so our thanks are nothing to them. Abraham's God, who said, "I will bless those who bless you," is with them, so if we thank them, we are the ones who are thankful in return.
 
👉Why does Christ appear to the saints?
 
God is the God of victory and defeat. His victory was revealed to Pharaoh and others. His defeat was revealed to the saints. Even though we are sinners, our Lord was overcome by our love and died on the cross for us. So, in short, why does Christ appear to the saints? We can see that in the following detailed points:
 
👉Because the love of the saints compels Him, He will reveal Himself to them:

 "He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself." to him.'' John 14:21:: He will be revealed to all the righteous who make the death of Christ their death, leave their warm and bright house and their possessions, wander on the wild cliffs, lick the dew, sleep on the rocks, and live a life of struggle. Also, even if some are called to live as a king/queen in the world, Christ will be revealed to all the martyrs who gave their bodies to the fire and the sword saying, "It is better for us to carry the cross of Christ's suffering." Our Loard has said "He who does not bear my cross and does not follow after me is not worthy of me, and whoever destroys his life will find it." So, thinking or believing that our Lord will not appear to the saints is like saying to the Loard that you are not faithful to your words, You are not close to those who need you .
 
(Continued) 👇

--- id:2139 | date:2023-12-24T23:51:02 ---
(Continue) 👆

As we journey towards the crucifixion and resurrection of our Lord, let us keep these lessons in our hearts and strive to live a life that is faithful and obedient to God's will. May we seek His forgiveness and mercy, and may His love and grace guide us always.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2140 | date:2023-12-25T21:15:22 ---


--- id:2141 | date:2023-12-25T21:16:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the story of the #covenant of Mercy 
(Virgin #Mary)

The concept of a "Covenant of Mercy," deeply rooted in Orthodox theology, reflects the profound interplay between divine justice and mercy. This story, particularly centered around the Blessed Virgin Mary, is a vivid tapestry of faith, intercession, and divine promise, painting a picture of God's unending compassion towards humanity.

The Covenant with the Blessed Virgin Mary

The narrative of the Blessed Virgin Mary's covenant with Christ is a cornerstone of this theological understanding. In her plea at the tomb of Christ, Mary exemplifies the role of intercessor, a bridge between the divine and the human. Her plea, "My child, my friend... I am begging you to come and listen to my pleas," is not just a mother's cry but a symbolic representation of humanity's yearning for divine intervention and mercy.

The Essence of the Covenant

At its core, the Covenant of Mercy is an oath, a divine promise of salvation and forgiveness. It transcends the boundaries of time and space, linking the faithful across generations. This covenant is not merely an agreement but an embodiment of God's unwavering commitment to His creation.

Biblical Foundations

The concept of a covenant is deeply entrenched in the Scriptures. The Old Testament is replete with instances of covenants between God and His people, symbolizing a profound relationship based on commitments and promises. In the New Testament, this theme continues, particularly through the life and teachings of Jesus Christ, culminating in the New Covenant of grace and truth.

The Intercessory Role of Saints

In Orthodox theology, saints hold a special place as intercessors and exemplars of divine grace. Their lives, a testament to faith and devotion, become channels through which God's mercy flows. The story of the covenant reminds us that the saints, in their earthly life and heavenly abode, continue to intercede for us, presenting our pleas before the throne of God.

### The Necessity of the Covenant

Why is such a covenant necessary? It stems from the inherent human condition marked by sin and frailty, as first seen in Adam. The covenant is God's response to this condition, offering a path to redemption and salvation. It is a beacon of hope, guiding the faithful towards a life of virtue and piety.

The Role of Good Deeds

This covenant, however, is not a passive assurance. It calls for active participation in the form of good deeds. It is not an excuse for moral laxity but an encouragement to strive for righteousness, knowing that divine mercy is ever-present.

The Universality of God's Mercy

The mercy of God, as revealed in these narratives, is not limited to a select few but is a universal promise. It extends beyond the saints to every repentant sinner, offering forgiveness and a chance for renewal.

The Blessed Virgin Mary's Unique Role

In this celestial drama, the Blessed Virgin Mary holds a unique position. She is not only a recipient of this covenant but also an active participant in its dispensation. Her intercessory role is magnified in this covenant, making her a focal point of hope and salvation for all who seek her son, Jesus Christ.

Conclusion

In contemplating the "Story of the Covenant of Mercy," we are invited to reflect on the depth of God's love and the profound role of the Blessed Virgin Mary in the economy of salvation. This narrative is not just a historical account but a living reality that invites us to partake in the divine mercy, encouraging us to live lives worthy of this high calling.

In the spirit of John Chrysostom, let us ponder these truths, allowing them to transform our understanding and approach to our faith, leading us closer to the heart of God's unending mercy.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2143 | date:2023-12-26T21:16:09 ---
👉 About the One True #Faith 

👉🏾 Question፦ is this your main page or is this a fan? I really need some genuine and positive questions answered, it may seem a little weird or awkward to you but i see the person you are and i just feel like you have intelligent knowledge, I’ve been watching so many videos cus I’ve been lost on what to believe in, how to gain knowledge on spirituality because we are supposed spiritual beings and i see other videos of us supposed to believing Christianity which is a religion but i truly feel that there is a god overall but people say that we are created by the universe and some say we the ancestors and honestly I just want the truth! Please. Thanks. I know I am very lost but do you see my issue?!

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Indeed, this is my main page, and I am here to answer your earnest inquiries with the wisdom and truth that has been entrusted to me through the Holy Orthodox Tradition. Your journey for truth in a world filled with diverse and conflicting views is understood and respected.

In your search for truth, it is essential to remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, who said, “I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me” (John 14:6). This profound statement guides us to the understanding that truth is not a concept, but a Person, Jesus Christ Himself. Christianity is not merely a set of beliefs or moral guidelines, but a living, breathing encounter with Christ, who is the Truth.

As spiritual beings, our souls yearn for this connection with the Divine. The teachings of the Orthodox Church, deeply rooted in Scripture and the wisdom of the Holy Fathers, offer a path to nurture this connection. It is a journey of transformation, where we become partakers of the Divine Nature (2 Peter 1:4) through the sacramental life of the Church.

Regarding the various ideas about our creation and purpose, the Orthodox Church teaches that we are created by God, in His image and likeness (Genesis 1:26-27), and our ultimate purpose is to attain union with Him. This union is not absorbed in an impersonal universe or ancestral spirits, but a personal relationship with our Creator.

In your quest for truth, I encourage you to seek a spiritual guide within the Orthodox Church, who can lead you in understanding the faith more deeply and guide you in your spiritual life. This journey towards Christ is one of continuous growth and discovery.

As you continue to seek the truth, what steps are you willing to take to deepen your understanding of Christ and His Church?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2150 | date:2023-12-27T23:00:01 ---


--- id:2151 | date:2023-12-27T23:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Nature of #Stress in a Fallen World

In the Orthodox understanding, stress is seen as a consequence of living in a fallen world. It is a manifestation of the brokenness that pervades human existence since the Fall. Stress arises from our daily struggles, whether they be physical, emotional, or spiritual. However, the Orthodox perspective does not view stress as merely a psychological or physical phenomenon but as a deeply spiritual one.

The Call to Trust in God

The central tenet of overcoming stress in Orthodox spirituality is absolute trust in God. This trust is beautifully encapsulated in the words of Jesus Christ, "Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life..." (Matthew 6:25). This exhortation is a call to remember that God, in His providence, cares for the smallest details of our lives. The Orthodox faithful are encouraged to believe that if God cares for the birds of the air, how much more will He care for His children made in His image (Matthew 6:26)?

The Role of Prayer and Faith

Prayer is a cornerstone in dealing with stress from an Orthodox viewpoint. Through prayer, believers cast their anxieties and worries upon God, as instructed by Apostle Peter, "casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you" (1 Peter 5:7). Prayer is not seen merely as a request for help but as a means of communion with God, whereby the faithful align their wills with God's will, finding peace in His sovereign control over their lives.

The Sacramental Life

Orthodox Christianity places great emphasis on the sacraments as a means of grace and healing. Participation in the Holy Eucharist, confession, and anointing with oil are seen as tangible means through which God imparts peace and healing to the stressed and anxious soul.

The Virtue of Patience and Endurance

The Orthodox tradition teaches that stress and suffering can be transformative when endured with patience and faith. St. Paul's words, "We rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance..." (Romans 5:3), are a testament to this belief. Suffering and stress are not seen as mere obstacles but as opportunities for spiritual growth and deepening one's faith.

The Intercession of Saints

In times of stress, the Orthodox faithful also turn to the saints for intercession. The lives of the saints, who have endured great trials and tribulations, serve as a source of inspiration and comfort. The intercessions of the Theotokos (Mother of God) and other saints are sought, believing in their close communion with God and their ability to intercede on behalf of the faithful.

Cultivating Inner Peace

Orthodox spirituality also emphasizes the cultivation of inner peace through the practice of stillness (hesychasm). This involves quieting the mind and heart in the presence of God, often through the Jesus Prayer: "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner." This practice helps to center the believer in God's presence, away from the tumult of external circumstances.

Conclusion

In conclusion, the Orthodox approach to stress is holistic, addressing the spiritual, emotional, and physical aspects of a person. It emphasizes trust in God's providence, the power of prayer, the grace received through the sacraments, the transformative potential of suffering, the intercession of saints, and the cultivation of inner peace through stillness. Through these means, believers find the strength to transcend their anxieties and stresses, resting in the peace and joy of the Lord, which surpasses all understanding.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2155 | date:2023-12-28T23:00:38 ---
👉🏾 About deepening our #understanding of God

👉 Question፦ I'm willing to take Literally any step to deepen my understanding of Christ and His Church, i feel as church would be one of my options, speaking to intelligent people that are living for Christ and also want to see some things that i could learn about spirituality, and when people say god does everyone mean the same god but different opinions about god, or one specific god that they believe in? Even though I am very confused and lost in this world I really do believe there was a creator of a universe which people called god and i believed it was the christian god! But as i started to hear everyone say things about Christianity and and saying religions are fake and they where showing proof might’ve been fake but it is so believable and understandable that you will be curious and don’t know what to believe anymore and it says bibles are rewrote and made by satanic elites I was so broken but i still continued with my faith, I just wish god could come talk to me or give me a sign!

Answer፦ My dear seeker of truth, your earnest inquiry touches the heart deeply. In your journey towards understanding Christ and His Church, it is vital to remember that God reaches out to each of us in unique ways, often through the quiet whispers of our hearts rather than in loud proclamations.

In the quest for spiritual depth, the Orthodox Church offers a rich tapestry of tradition, prayer, and community, deeply anchored in the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. Our faith is not merely an intellectual exercise, but a living, breathing encounter with the Divine.

Regarding your question about God, Christianity professes belief in the Holy Trinity – one God in three persons: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. This belief is distinct and different from other conceptions of God found in various religions. As St. John of Damascus eloquently stated, “I do not worship creation. I worship the Creator of creation, who became part of creation for my sake.”

The doubts and confusion you experience are not uncommon in our age, where myriad voices and opinions clamor for attention. It is important to discern the truth amidst this noise. Remember the words of Christ in John 8:32, “And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.” This journey to truth is not a solitary one; it is traversed in the company of those who seek and love Christ.

Regarding the Bible, it is a sacred text, divinely inspired yet penned by human hands. While translations and interpretations may vary, its core message of redemption, love, and the revelation of God in Jesus Christ remains steadfast. In Orthodoxy, the Bible is understood within the living Tradition of the Church, which safeguards its meaning and application.

You long for a sign from God, and in this longing, you are not alone. God speaks to us in various ways – through Scripture, the beauty of creation, the love of others, and the still, small voice within our own hearts. Sometimes, the sign we seek is found in the very journey of seeking itself.

In your pursuit of a deeper understanding, I encourage you to connect with a spiritual guide, someone rooted in the Orthodox faith, who can journey with you, answer your questions, and introduce you to the transformative practices of prayer, fasting, and almsgiving that are central to our faith. This can be a clergy from your local Oriental Orthodox and if not, Eastern Orthodox Church and we are always here to answer any questions you may have and are commited to support you throughout your journey towads the Kingdom of God. 

Remember, the journey to God is a journey of the heart, a journey of transformation. What step will you take today to draw nearer to the loving embrace of our Creator?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2157 | date:2023-12-29T23:20:04 ---


--- id:2158 | date:2023-12-29T23:22:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; As mentioned in the title, we have sent you the following important lesson about the annual commemoration of the Archangel Gabriel, which was celebrated yesterday, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

St. Gabriel is the 2nd ranked angel power after St. Michael among the 7 archangels. He is described in the scriptures equally as the Archangel Michael in his intercession and mediation. Gabriel means servant and messenger of God. He is given this mysterious name because it is often revealed in the form of a human being and conveys God's message or God's will to mankind. In the place where the angels were created, when God, who created them, disappeared from their eyes in an instant to ensure the stability of their religion. Then question arose in the society of angels: 'Who created us?', 'Where did we come from?'  At this time, the father of destruction, the devil, boldly and defiantly said, "I have created you." But the angel Saint Gabriel calmed down the association of countless holy angels by saying that we should stand firm where we are. Because of this, as it is written on John 1:14, 'The Word became flesh', he was chosen to announce to the Virgin that the Son of God  will come down from heaven and be born as a man from the Virgin Mary. The angel Gabriel said to the her, "Behold, you will conceive and give birth to a son, and you will call his name Jesus. He is great. He will be called the Son of the Most High (Luke 1:31). Now that we have learned something about the Archangel, we will proceed with today's feast. 

This is the miracle he performed on December 28th (annual commemoration day) : Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael (Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego) from the furnace fire. If you ask how this happened, when they were living in captivity in Persian Babylon, King Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel the fourth and placed them in the palace to learn wisdom from Babylon. Meldar, their steward, offered them meat and wine in goblets. They said, "We will not eat this. Give us some grain and good water." He said to them, "If the king sees your weight loss, he will be angry." They said give us a date. He gave them 10 days. They ate grains and drank water, and they were more handsome and bright than those who ate meat and drank wine. While they were learning, the Lord revealed his wisdom to them and they became wise, especially Daniel who enterpreted the king's vision. Then because of this, the king appointed them in three states. But the Babylonians were jealous of this and thought of a reason to quarrel with the king. They said to the king, make a picture of yourself so you can distinguish between your friend and your enemy. He made a gold statue 60 cubits high and 6 cubits wide and placed it in the field of Aduran and proclaimed that those who do not bow to it will be punished. When everybody bowed down, they  (Ananya, Azariah, and Mishael) said, "We will not bow down." And the Babylonians went and told the king. The king then ordered they be brought before him for questioning. He asked them 'Do you say that we should not worship?' They said yes. 'Who will save you?' They said to him "the God that created us will save us." He kindled a fire, and the flame became 49 cubits.

After this, he selected the mighty ones and threw the three into the fire. The soldiers who pushed them to fire were burned but  for the three (Ananya, Azariah, Misael) the angel Gabriel came down and touched the fire with his rod, it turned into water. When the Babylonians saw that the fire was extinguished, they added more fire to it and activated the burn. But they (Ananya, Azariah, Mishael) spent the night singing praises to God without being burned.

(to be continued)👇

--- id:2159 | date:2023-12-29T23:26:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The feast of #Saint #Gabriel the Archangel

(continued part)👆👇

In the morning, when Nebuchadnezzar looked from his balcony, he saw four of them walking in the fire. Yesterday we tied three men and threw them out of the fiery furnace, but today I see four of them released  and walking in the fire. And immediately he went out of the oven and said to them, come out. They ran out. Not even an ash was found on their clothes. Nebuchadnezzar saw this and said, "Praise be to God, the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who sent his angel and saved the poor." 'King, do you think it's true? It was because of their magic' said the Babylonians. And the king said 'If by magic, save yourselves by your magic for there is none greater than you, and then added the Babylonians to the fire and burned them.

And the king returned the decree with a decree saying that there is no one who can save except the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. (Dan chapter 3)

👉🏾 In addition to the above, here are some of the main works of intercession and mediation that the angel Saint Gabriel is known for, which he performed by the grace given to him from the Creator:-

👉 1st/ He told the prophet Daniel in a vision about what was going to happen. 15:16)

👉 2. Also, in the vision that the prophet Daniel saw again, he said this about the angel, "While I was still praying, the angel I had seen in the vision before, Gabriel, came flying... He taught me and told me... Daniel, I have come now to give you wisdom and understanding" (Dan 9: 21-23)

👉 3rd / Saint Gabriel is the angel who saved Daniel from the lion's mouth.

👉 4th /  Saint Gabriel saved the three men named Ananya, Azaria, and Misael from the furnace fire. 

👉 5th/ He announced to the priest Zacharias and Saint Elizabeth that they would give birth to John the Baptist in their old age.

👉 6. He announced to the Virgin Mary that the physical word Jesus Christ, who is the cure of the world, would be born from the her.

👉 7th/ He saved  St. Jeletan and the child Kirkos from a boiling fire in an iron tank. 

👉 8th/ He led the wise men to the city of Bethlehem where the Lord was born, leading them with the sign of a star.

👉 9th/ Old Joseph was told in a dream to take his mother and baby and flee to Egypt.

👉 10/ In addition, Saint Gabriel announced the conception of Samson; He brought forth water for Agar in the desert. He who interpreted the mystery to Daniel; He is an angel appointed over serpents and scorpions.

In general, we find this angel's intercession and guardianship in many readings of the holy books; God has helped us to write to you on the occasion of the monthly holiday that we celebrate today, March 28th, so that we may all receive the intercession and blessings of the angel Saint Gabriel. 

Therefore, if the Lord God had not sent his angels to protect us night and morning, day and night, on the road, when we sleep at home and when we get up, Satan's army would have prevent us from having life in this world and the next .

God's prophet, Saint David, said, "No calamity will enter your house. He will raise up angels for you to guard you on your way. They will lift you up with their hands so that your feet will not stumble over a stone..." Telling us about the guardianship and protection of angels.

In another paragraph, he said, "God's angel will live around those who fear him, and will save them." He said that angels will save people who believe in the guardianship and intercession of angels, and that they will save us from physical and spiritual suffering. (Ps 33:7, 90/91:10')

Since angels are appointed to have authority over all creatures, the prophet Enoch told us about the power of intercessor and guardianship of Saint Gabriel saying that he is one of the noble angels appointed over the serpents, the righteous in heaven, and the cherubim. (Enoch 6:7)

May the prayers and supplications of this great angel of light rest upon us

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2164 | date:2023-12-31T21:03:34 ---


--- id:2165 | date:2023-12-31T21:03:44 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #New_Year #2024

My Beloved in Christ,

As we stand at the threshold of the New Year 2024, let us embrace it with a heart full of hope and a spirit eager for renewal. In the spirit of the Orthodox tradition, rather than a lengthy discourse, I offer you a simple yet profound lesson drawn from the depths of our faith.

Reflect upon the words of St. Paul in Ephesians 5:16, "Making the most of every opportunity, because the days are evil." This New Year, let us focus on the sacredness of time. Each moment is a precious gift from God, an opportunity for growth, for love, for repentance, and for deepening our communion with Him.

In our fast-paced, modern world, it is easy to become entangled in the transient and lose sight of the eternal. As an Orthodox Christian, strive to see each day as a chance to draw nearer to God. Engage in daily prayer, immerse yourself in the Holy Scriptures, and partake in the sacramental life of the Church. This is the path to true transformation.

Also, consider finding a spiritual father or mother. In the Orthodox tradition, a spiritual guide is invaluable for navigating the spiritual journey. They provide wisdom, encouragement, and a living example of Christ-like humility and love.

This New Year, let your resolution be to live each day in the presence of God, seeking His will and opening your heart to His transformative grace.

As you embark on this journey, ask yourself: "How can I make each day a step closer to God, making the most of the time He has blessed me with?"

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you in this New Year.

In Christ's Love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2167 | date:2024-01-01T21:45:01 ---


--- id:2168 | date:2024-01-01T21:47:16 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #annunciation of our Lord. 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, yesterday we celebrated the feast of the annunciation in the Ethiopian Orthodox church, hence we send you the following lesson so you can read and partake from the blessings of this wonderful event. 

The Divine Announcement: A Cosmic Shift

In the Orthodox tradition, the Annunciation is not merely a historical event but a cosmic shift where heaven intersects with earth. The Archangel Gabriel's visitation to the Virgin Mary marks the beginning of humanity's salvation. This momentous occasion, celebrated with great reverence, signifies the initiation of the divine plan for redemption.

The Virgin Mary: The Fulcrum of Salvation

The Orthodox Church venerates the Virgin Mary, Theotokos, as the fulcrum of salvation history. Her response to Gabriel, "Behold, I am the servant of the Lord; let it be to me according to your word" (Luke 1:38), encapsulates her humility, obedience, and faith. This assent is not passive but an active cooperation with God's grace. In Mary's fiat, we see the undoing of Eve's disobedience; where Eve's "no" brought forth fall and death, Mary's "yes" ushered in redemption and life.

The Mystery of the Incarnation

The Annunciation heralds the mystery of the Incarnation. It is a testament to God's immeasurable love and humility, choosing to become man, not in grandeur but in the quiet of a maiden's heart. This event reveals a God who does not overwhelm with power but woos with love, respecting human freedom and dignity.

The Role of the Archangel Gabriel

Archangel Gabriel's role in the Annunciation is pivotal. He serves as the divine messenger, bridging the celestial and the earthly. His greeting, "Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you" (Luke 1:28), is not just an announcement but an invocation of joy. In Orthodox theology, joy is not mere emotion but a state of being in God's presence.

The Annunciation: A Paradigm of Prayer

The Annunciation also serves as a paradigm of prayer and contemplation in Orthodox spirituality. Mary's encounter with Gabriel is a moment of deep, internalized communion with God. It teaches the faithful that true prayer is an encounter with the divine, a moment of receiving and responding to God's living word.

Theological and Eschatological Dimensions

Theologically, the Annunciation is rich with implications. It signifies the beginning of the New Covenant, the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies, and the prelude to the Paschal Mystery. Eschatologically, it points to the ultimate restoration of all creation in Christ. Mary's womb becomes the space where heaven and earth converge, where the temporal meets the eternal.

Conclusion: The Annunciation in the Life of the Faithful

For the Orthodox faithful, the Annunciation is not a distant historical event but a living reality. It invites believers to a life of humility, obedience, and joyful acceptance of God's will. It calls them to be bearers of Christ, just as Mary was, transforming their lives into a continual 'yes' to God.

In the spirit of John Chrysostom, we see in the Annunciation a profound mystery, a divine invitation, and a call to a transformative relationship with God. May the blessings of this sacred event inspire and guide us in our spiritual journey. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2169 | date:2024-01-02T22:00:02 ---


--- id:2170 | date:2024-01-02T22:00:02 ---


--- id:2171 | date:2024-01-02T22:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Tekle_Haymanot 

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you a lesson on St. Tekle Haymanot, who's annual feast of nativity is celebrated today, so that you may better understand his story and use it as an inspiration to shape yours. 

Venerated Pillar of Apostolic Faith

Just as a well-nurtured tree yields bounteous fruit, so too is the true faith enriched and passed down by holy servants of the Lord. Consider the chronicles of Saint Tekle Haymanot, the radiant beacon of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.

Born to the world on December 27, 1214 AD, his entry into this realm had been divinely announced the prior year, on March 27, 1214 AD. Originally christened "Fiseha Zion," he was reared under this name and in the devout shadow of his father, Tzaga Ze'ab. Young Fiseha Zion immersed himself in holy scriptures, the Bluyat and the Hadisat, manifesting an early zeal for divine matters. Legend recounts his prowess as a hunter, but in a profound epiphany, the heavens rent asunder, revealing our Savior Jesus Christ, borne on the wings of Archangel Michael, with a celestial chorus of angels in tow. Addressing the astounded youth, our Lord decreed, "Henceforth, you shall bear the name 'Planted Trinity,' and your hunt shall no longer be for game, but for souls. Fear not, for I am perpetually at your side." And then, as mysteriously as He had appeared, our Lord vanished into the heavenly expanse.

Armed with this divine mandate, Saint Tekle Haymanot distributed his earthly possessions among the needy and embarked on a divine mission, starting at Mnane. Ordained by the Pope, he began evangelizing with such enthusiasm that his very first sermon led ten thousand souls in the region of "Shwa Tsilalesh" to baptism. He then traversed vast tracts of Ethiopia, reclaiming lands and souls lost to foreign religions due to past onslaughts by Judith and Islamic influence. He unflinchingly faced down the heretical Marian sorcerers.

Apart from his evangelical conquests, Saint Tekle Haymanot was a cornerstone of monasticism in Ethiopia. His dedication saw him serve in three renowned monasteries: Abune Besilote Michael Monastery for twelve years, Abune Jesus Moa Zahaiq Monastery for seven years, and Debre Damo for another seven years alongside Abune Yohani. This sums up to an impressive twenty-six years. Post his monastic commitments, he retreated to Medreshwa (Zorre), where he spent twenty-two years in deep prayer, during which he famously planted six spears around him and prayed continuously for seven years.

His faith was not confined to Ethiopia. Spiritual encounters and blessings marked his pilgrimage to Jerusalem. At the sight of the sacred places, including Christ's crucifixion at Calvary, he wept bitterly. Legend speaks of a divine vision he received wherein he beheld the Holy Trinity in its unity and trinity and declared, "Glory to the Holy Trinity," before descending back to earth.

The miraculous exploits of Saint Tekle Haymanot are innumerable. He resurrected the dead, healed the ailing, exorcised demons, and performed wonders that transcended the earthly realm. He was a luminary, a beacon guiding many towards the light of Orthodoxy, and even founded Mount Lebanon Monastery, a unique abode where male and female monks coexisted in spiritual harmony. After a lifetime replete with tribulations and triumphs for the faith, he entered the heavenly abode at the age of ninety-nine, on August 25, 1314 AD.

May the blessings and intercession of our revered father, Saint Tekle Haymanot, always be our fortress and guide, amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2174 | date:2024-01-03T21:10:02 ---


--- id:2175 | date:2024-01-03T21:12:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Essence of #Fasting: A Divine Commandment

Fasting, in the Orthodox understanding, transcends mere abstention from food. It is an act of obedience to God's command, a testament to the discipline of the soul over bodily desires. This practice traces its roots to the very beginning of human existence, as seen in the command given to Adam in the Garden of Eden. The abstention from certain foods was not merely a physical act but a spiritual exercise, teaching obedience, self-control, and dependence on God's wisdom and provision.

Fasting: A Path to Spiritual Liberation

The great fathers of the Church, like Mar Isaac, extolled fasting as the foundation of all spiritual endeavors. It is portrayed as the harbinger of virtues like purity, humility, and prayerfulness. Fasting is not only a means of controlling physical appetites but also a powerful tool for cleansing the soul, elevating the mind, and nurturing a heart attuned to the divine. It becomes a voluntary embrace of simplicity and a conscious rejection of worldly excesses.

Biblical Foundations of Fasting

The practice of fasting finds ample support in the Holy Scriptures. Christ Himself, following His baptism, retreated into the wilderness, engaging in a prolonged fast. This act set a precedent for His followers, illustrating the spiritual potency inherent in fasting. The prophets and apostles, following in the footsteps of Christ, embraced fasting as a means of reconciliation with God, a testament to its enduring spiritual significance.

The Theology of Fasting: A Means to God’s Grace

Fasting, in the Orthodox tradition, is intrinsically linked to the concept of grace. It is seen as a tangible expression of a believer's yearning for divine grace. The Fathers teach that fasting, combined with prayer, becomes a potent conduit for God's mercy, an instrument for the remission of sins, and a means of attaining spiritual insight. By subduing the physical, fasting elevates the spiritual, aligning the human will with the divine.

Fasting and the Conquest of Sin

In the Orthodox perspective, fasting is a powerful weapon in the battle against sin. It aids in purifying the heart and mind, allowing believers to focus more intently on God and His commandments. The practice serves as a bulwark against temptation, strengthening the believer's resolve to live in accordance with God's will.

Fasting: A Communal and Personal Discipline

While fasting is a deeply personal spiritual exercise, it also has a communal dimension in Orthodox Christianity. It fosters a sense of solidarity among believers, uniting them in their shared pursuit of spiritual growth and closeness to God. This communal aspect of fasting reinforces the concept of the Church as a body of believers journeying together towards salvation.

The Contemporary Relevance of Fasting

In an age marked by material excess and spiritual malaise, fasting emerges as a countercultural testament to the enduring relevance of spiritual disciplines. It offers a means of resistance against the pervasive influence of a consumerist society, inviting believers to seek fulfillment not in temporal pleasures but in the eternal joy of communion with God.

Conclusion: Embracing Fasting as a Way of Life

Fasting, as taught by the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church and reflected in the eloquence of Church Fathers like John Chrysostom, is not merely an occasional religious observance. It is a way of life, a continual journey towards spiritual perfection, and a profound expression of love for God and neighbor. In embracing fasting, believers find not just spiritual discipline, but a path to the heart of the Christian faith – a journey of transformation, sanctification, and divine communion.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2176 | date:2024-01-04T20:46:44 ---


--- id:2177 | date:2024-01-04T20:46:52 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Communion 

👉What is the Holy Communion?

👉What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion?

👉Who founded the Holy Communion?

👉Why is the Holy Communion called a Mystery?

👉Who is worthy of the Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do before receiving Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do when we receive Holy Communion?

👉What are major points we need to understand before receiving it?

👉What precautions should we take after receiving Holy Communion?

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the questions on the topic above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.


About the Holy Communion, its Origin and the ceremony

According to the canon of our Church, the Holy Eucharist (Qurban) is one of the seven sacraments of the Church. Qurban is a Surist and Greek (Arabic) word that means blessing, gift of money, knowledge, labor and time. In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.
 
In the Old Testament era, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called 'sacrifice', 'communion'.
 
But in the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile himself with mankind. Therefore, the sacrament means the perfect body and blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior, the Lamb of God.

It is our God, our Savior, Jesus Christ, who founded the sacrament of the Holy Communion. And the day he started the system is the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. When our savior established this great system and secret, only his twelve disciples were with him, and he did not reveal it to all the people who were following him as before. This is the reason why the Church still presents it with a veil and honor. When our Lord was sacrificed on the cross, in order to cover Him, the sun was dark the moon was covered with blood and the stars dropped down like withered fruit like chilies . Even the angels of heaven dare not touch the sacrifice, for this is given only to the priests.
 
The Holy Communion is called a mystery. Our Lord Jesus Christ took the bread, blessed it, consecrated it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "This is my flesh." Therefore, it is a great mystery that the bread is changed into the flesh of God the Son  (the flesh of God) and the wine is the blood of God the Son  (blood of God), that is why it is called the mystery. (Matthew 26:26, Mark 14:22) Even today, the priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat, and they prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread into the flesh of God and the wine into the blood of God, the authority of the priest, the word of God, and through the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God) and the wine into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God). This makes the Holy Communion a mystery because it is hidden from the unbeliever, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. In addition, visible service is given the secret of invisible grace.
 
Major Points that we need to understand before receiving Holy Communion
 
- We must believe without doubt that the bread and wine are changed into the body and blood of Jesus Christ. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body..this is my blood, drink. (Matthew 26:26)

(Part 2 to be continued )👇

--- id:2178 | date:2024-01-04T20:51:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  2 (Cont'd)

- It is necessary to believe that the Holy Communion is given to heal the stain of sin and to heal the wound of sin. He said, "Drink of it, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.'" (Matthew 26:27)

- It must be acknowledged that it leads to eternal life. "Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day" (John 6:53).
 
- All those who partake of the Holy Communion must believe that Christ is with them, that they live together with Christ, that His flesh is united with their flesh, and their blood is united with His blood, and that their God is united with them by grace. (He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives with me, and I live in him" (John 6:56).

- It is necessary to repent from past sins, confess, return and guard against future sins. "After that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God." (Mark 1:14) The Kingdom of God refers to His Holy Body and His Precious Blood.
 
- There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion. From the day we were baptized on the 40th and 80th day after birth, where by we become being children of God and received the Holy Communion, we should not stay away from the Holy Communion since then until the end of our lives. It is a great mistake to think of youth as sinfulness in itself or a life unfit for the sacrament, and to think that we should  receive only in infancy and youth. There is no set age for approaching the Holy Communion and not approaching. The only thing that keeps us away from the Holy Communion is if we are highly involved in a particular sin and that we still do now and then being unable stop it. We should take a gap and and make sure to be committed to stop that particular sin first.  Unbelief should not be admitted to sin without repentance. "And now, says the Lord, return to me with all your hearts, fasting, weeping and wailing" (Acts 2:12).
 
 
- Husband and wife should receive Holy Communion together at the first time. If a husband and wife have not received the sacrament together before, it is not allowed for them to receive it separately or one side alone. But after they once received it together, they have already confirmed their unity in flesh and spirit, they can be receive separately. 
 
- In general, because our salvation Jesus Christ died for all, it is a wrong attitude to take the difference between married and single, race, color, sex and age. A person should live by receiving Holy Communion from his childhood until he gets married, when he gets married (together with his husband/wife), and after marriage until his death.
 
Points We  Need to know upon Preparation to receive Holy Communion
 
 
1.       Prepare with absolute faith. We should believe that what we receive is the holy body and precious blood of our Lord, who died on the cross of Calvary on Friday for the world's salvation. In addition, we should strengthned our belive saying to our self :- " I will find forgiveness through repentance for the sins I committed; I will find the strength to be protected from future sins, Christ is in me and I will live in Christ, I will find eternal salvation, I will be protected from a sick body and a sick soul." Saying this, we need to prepare with complete faith and always repent from sin before being anointed and prepare to receive it with faith.
 
(Part 2 to be continued)👇

--- id:2179 | date:2024-01-04T20:54:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  3 (Cont'd)

2.       If those receiving Holy Communion are married, they should abstain from sexual intercourse for 3 days before receiving Holy Communion. Sexual intercourse on permitted days in marriage is not a sin, but since it is an act of the flesh , so this period is also one of the forbidden days in terms of giving respect to the sacrament.
 
3.       Anyone who repents and is freed from his sins should keep his heart away from revenge and his body away from wrongdoing.

4.       In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food and water, and wait until the feeling of food being removed from the stomach.

5.       If one sees inappropriate dreams, they will not receive Holy Communion that day. Also, if there is bleeding on anypart of a body, bleeding wound,  or if vomited, or if flys like a mosquito bite entered our the mouth or nose, it is not possible to receive on that day.

6. On the eve of the day we plan to receive Holy Communion, we should take a bath and clean what we wear.

7. Before starting the mass, it is necessary to attend the church and properly follow /consecrate the mass. We should be present before Liturgy starts, and ideally attend the services before that as well. 

8. A woman should  not receive until 7th days of her menstruation. Then she washes her body and can receives on the 8th day or after then. Also at the time of childbirth she does not receive it until he day of the Christening of the child. "If a woman gives birth, it means 80 days, if she gives birth to a boy, it means 40 days" (Leviticus 12:1-5)

Points we need to know when we present at Church to receive Holy Communion

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:2185 | date:2024-01-05T20:45:54 ---
https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT84rHG3Y/

--- id:2186 | date:2024-01-05T20:48:01 ---
https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT84rWbMv/

--- id:2187 | date:2024-01-05T20:51:01 ---
https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT84rpto7/

--- id:2188 | date:2024-01-06T20:30:50 ---


--- id:2189 | date:2024-01-06T20:30:50 ---


--- id:2190 | date:2024-01-06T20:30:50 ---


--- id:2191 | date:2024-01-06T20:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Nativity of #Christ - A #New #Covenant

Christ is born! Glory be to Him! 

Beloved and respected members who follow the orthodox education and spiritual service that we convey on John's Repentance page, we send you this writing about today's feast, the nativity of Christ written by Bishop Youssef of the Coptic Orthodox Church because it is important to understand what we are celebrating, so we entrust you to read it and learn from it.

The birth of our Lord Jesus Christ marks the beginning of a New Covenant between God and man, a covenant previously and purposefully foreshadowed and prepared for by a prior covenant.

In order to understand and appreciate the New Covenant that God has instituted with humanity, it is necessary to take a close look at the old one.

The Old Covenant was between God and Israel "And I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your descendants after you in their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and your descendants after you" (Genesis 17:7). The New Covenant, however, is established between God and any person who will receive the Son of God "But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to become children of God, to those who believe in His name who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God (John 1:12,13).

The Old Covenant was temporary, and conditioned upon the Israelites’ obedience of the law. God foretold to Moses that this covenant would not last but would soon be broken, "this people will rise and play the harlot with the gods of the foreigners of the land, where they go to be among them, and they will forsake Me and break My covenant which I have made with them. Then My anger shall be aroused against them in that day, and I will forsake them" (Deut 31:16,17). On the other hand, the New Covenant is designed for eternal life; and will thus last forever. St. Paul says, "The God of peace who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant …" (Heb 13:20,21).

In the Old Covenant, there was no hope of eternal life for a person who broke any of the prescribed laws. In that sense, the law could not bring salvation nor justify anyone. All it could do was teach people the need for salvation by a Savior and by His grace granted henceforth. In contrast, in the New Testament, we are justified and sanctified by the work of our Lord Jesus Christ through the Holy Spirit.

The ceremony of the Old Covenant included the slaughter of a heifer, a goat, a ram, a dove, and a young pigeon. After that Abraham cut the carcasses in half, and then at sunset only God walked the blood path between the two pieces of the carcasses (Genesis 15). Usually both parties of the Covenant would walk the blood path between the slaughtered animals as a symbol of what would happen to either party if they violated the terms of the agreement. It is interesting to note that with Abraham, only God walked the blood path to indicate that if Abraham or his descendants dishonored the covenant, God and only God would have to pay the price with His own blood.

The New Covenant has been established not by the slaughter of animals but by the slaughter of the Son of God on the holy wood of the Cross, after having walked the blood path Himself. "Why is Your apparel red, And Your garments like one who treads in the winepress? I have trodden the winepress alone, and from the peoples no one was with Me. For I have trodden them in My anger, And trampled them in My fury; Their blood is sprinkled upon My garments, and I have stained all My robes" (Isaiah 63:2-3).

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:2192 | date:2024-01-06T20:36:01 ---
(continued part) 👆🏾

The old law revolved around a system of animal sacrifices performed by chosen priests from the tribe of Levi. These Levitical priests had to make an offering for their own sins before they could offer sacrifices on behalf of anyone else. It is important to note that, there were many priests, who because of their sins and consequent spiritual death were prevented from continually offering the sacrifice. On the other hand, in the New Covenant our Mediator is a High Priest who being sinless, offered His own blood (for our forgiveness) for us and brought His sacrifice to Heaven itself as the only perfect offering to God. Because He has been raised from the dead, His perfect priesthood continues forever (Heb 7:23,24).

While the Old Covenant was written on two tablets of stone, the New Covenant is an Internal Covenant written on our hearts by the Holy Spirit who dwells in us "I will put my laws into their minds, and I will write them on their hearts" (Heb 8:10).

We knew sin through the Law "the Old Covenant" (Rom 7:7-11) and with the Law, there was no forgiveness but curse and wrath. However, through the New Covenant we have received the forgiveness of our sins: "For I will be merciful to their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more" (Heb 8:12).

The Old Covenant revealed the holiness of God in the righteous standard of the Mosaic Law and promised the coming of the Redeemer, but the New Covenant has shown the holiness of God in the righteousness of His Son.

The Old Covenant became obsolete with the appearance of the New Covenant which is eternal: "When He said, ’A New Covenant,’ He has made the first obsolete. But whatever is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to disappear" (Heb 8:13).

From the above comparison between the old and new covenants, it is obvious that the New Covenant is a much better one because it establishes a new and better relationship between God and man… As St Paul says, "And for this reason He is the Mediator of the New covenant" (Heb9:15) because "… now He has obtained a more excellent ministry, inasmuch as He is also Mediator of a better covenant, which was established on better promises. For if that first covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second" (Heb 8:6,7).

Through His incarnation, our Lord Jesus Christ became a Mediator of the New Covenant that was foreseen by Jeremiah the prophet, "Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah--not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, My covenant which they broke, though I was a husband to them, says the Lord. But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put My law in their minds, and write it on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be My people. No more shall every man teach his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' for they all shall know Me, from the least of them to the greatest of them, says the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and their sin I will remember no more" (Jeremiah 31: 31-34).

St. John Chrysostom explains the meaning of a Mediator, "What is a 'Mediator'? A mediator is not lord of the thing of which he is mediator, but the thing belongs to one person, and the mediator is another: as for instance, the mediator of a marriage is not the bridegroom, but one who aids him who is about to be married. So then also here: The Son became Mediator between the Father and us. The Father willed not to leave us this inheritance, but was wroth against us, and was displeased with us as being estranged from Him; He accordingly became Mediator between us and Him, and prevailed with Him."

(To be continued) 👇🏾

--- id:2193 | date:2024-01-06T20:39:01 ---
(Continued part) 👆🏾

The New Covenant has been instituted by the blood of the Lamb, "In the same manner He also took the cup after supper, saying, this cup is the new covenant in My blood. This do, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me" (1Cor 11:25). St. John Chrysostom elaborates, "But they were not sprinkled with "scarlet wool," nor yet "with hyssop." Why was this? Because the cleansing was not bodily but spiritual, and the blood was spiritual. How? It flowed not from the body of irrational animals, but from the Body prepared by the Spirit. With this blood not Moses but Christ sprinkled us, through the word which was spoken; "This is the blood of the New Testament, for the remission of sins." This word, instead of hyssop, having been dipped in the blood, sprinkles all. And there indeed the body was cleansed outwardly, for the purifying was bodily; but here, since the purifying is spiritual, it enters into the soul, and cleanses it, not being simply sprinkled over, but gushing forth in our souls. The initiated understand what is said. And in their case indeed one sprinkled just the surface; but he who was sprinkled washed it off again; for surely he did not go about continually stained with blood. But in the case of the soul it is not so, but the blood is mixed with its very substance, making it vigorous and pure, and leading it to the very unapproachable beauty."

Let us praise the Lord with the angels for His birth and the establishment of the New Covenant saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men."

May the Glorious Feast of the Nativity bless us and alert us to rededicate our hearts and lives to the New Covenant with our Lord Jesus Christ.

Source: Bishop Youssef, 
              Coptic Orthodox
              Diocese of the Southern 
              United States

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:2199 | date:2024-01-08T20:31:16 ---
https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT8VhCTQ6/

--- id:2201 | date:2024-01-08T21:06:08 ---


--- id:2202 | date:2024-01-08T21:06:18 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson about #Sin 

The Malady of Sin: A Soul's Sickness

In the Orthodox Christian understanding, sin is not merely a transgression of divine law but a profound sickness of the soul. Like a disease that ravages the body, sin corrodes our spiritual well-being, distancing us from God, who is the source of all life and health. This spiritual ailment manifests in our thoughts, actions, and the very orientation of our wills, leading us away from the divine harmony for which we were created.

Sin: A Severance from the Divine Will

Every sin, at its core, is a rebellion against the divine will, a deliberate turning away from the path God has ordained for us. This rebellion is not merely a legal infraction; it is a rupture in our relationship with our Creator, the source of all goodness and life. The gravity of sin lies in this separation, a severance from the life-giving communion with God.

The Deceptive Guise of Sin

Sin often masquerades as a false promise of fulfillment or freedom. It entices us with the allure of immediate gratification, blinding us to its long-term consequences. This deception leads us down a path of spiritual decay, where we become enslaved to our base passions and further estranged from our true purpose and identity in God.

The Call to Repentance and Transformation

In the Orthodox tradition, the antidote to sin is repentance — a radical reorientation of our lives towards God. This repentance is not merely a feeling of sorrow for wrongs committed; it is an active turning away from sin and a turning towards God. It involves a transformation of the heart and mind, a renewal of our inner selves according to the image of Christ.

The Sacramental Life: Healing for the Sin-Sick Soul

The Church, as the body of Christ, offers a path of healing through the sacraments. These sacred acts are not mere rituals; they are encounters with the living God who alone can restore our broken nature. In the sacrament of Confession, we bring our sins to light, receiving forgiveness and grace. In the Eucharist, we partake of the very life of Christ, who heals and transforms us from within.

The Struggle Against Sin: A Lifelong Journey

The Christian life is a constant struggle against sin. This struggle is not waged in our own strength but through the grace of God, which empowers and sustains us. We are called to vigilance, prayer, and ascetic discipline, always relying on the mercy and help of God to overcome the temptations and trials that beset us.

The Hope of Redemption

Despite the gravity of sin, the Orthodox faith is marked by a profound hope in the redeeming work of Christ. Through His life, death, and resurrection, Christ has conquered sin and death, offering us a path to restoration and eternal life. In Him, we find the promise of a renewed creation, where sin and its consequences are no more, and where we are fully united with God in a life of endless joy and peace.

In conclusion, from an Orthodox perspective, sin is a deep and pervasive problem that affects every aspect of our human existence. However, through the grace of God in Christ and the life of the Church, we are offered a path to healing and transformation. This journey requires our active participation in repentance, sacramental life, and the ongoing struggle against sin, always anchored in the hope of redemption through Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2212 | date:2024-01-11T21:02:20 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Words of #wisdom about #marriage

Behoved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, let us delve into an in-depth exploration of Orthodox wisdom, particularly in the context of marriage and Christian living.

1. The Foundation of Orthodox Marriage: In Orthodox Christianity, marriage is not merely a social contract but a sacred covenant. It is grounded in the Biblical teachings and the divine purpose for matrimony. As Christ said, building one's house on a rock ensures it withstands life's storms (Matthew 7:24-25). Similarly, a marriage built on the rock of faith, mutual respect, and godly principles is resilient and enduring.

2. Roles and Responsibilities in Marriage: The Orthodox tradition emphasizes distinct but complementary roles for husbands and wives. The husband is called to be the spiritual leader, guiding his family towards righteousness and peace. The wife's role involves respectful support and cooperation, contributing to the harmony and stability of the family (1 Corinthians 12:17).

3. Spiritual Leadership of the Husband: A husband's spirituality is pivotal in maintaining the sanctity and peace of the home. His leadership is not about dominance, but about guiding the family towards God's glory, embodying love, patience, and understanding.

4. Mutual Submission and Respect: While the Scripture teaches wives to submit to their husbands (Ephesians 5:22), this does not imply inequality. Mutual respect and love are the bedrock of an Orthodox marriage. Submission in this context is about humility and selflessness, mirroring Christ's love for the Church.

5. Understanding and Accommodating Differences: Recognizing and respecting the inherent differences between husbands and wives are crucial. These differences, ordained by God, are meant to complement each other, leading to a harmonious and balanced relationship.

6. Spiritual Practices in Marriage: Fasting, prayer, and abstinence are practices that can deepen the spiritual connection between husband and wife. These practices, when undertaken with mutual consent and understanding, strengthen the couple's bond and their relationship with God.

7. Bearing Each Other's Burdens: Galatians 6:2 calls us to bear one another's burdens. In marriage, this means being patient and forgiving, understanding that conflicts may arise but can be overcome through love, patience, and mutual support.

8. Living a Life of Love: An Orthodox marriage is a journey of love, resembling the selfless love Christ has for the Church. It's about serving each other, carrying each other's crosses, and walking together on the path of salvation.

9. Avoiding Negative Influences: Couples should be wary of external temptations such as negative family interference or harmful advice. Instead, they should seek counsel from spiritual leaders and rely on their faith to guide them through challenges.

10. Emulating Monastic Virtues in Marriage: While monasticism represents the pinnacle of Christian devotion, married couples are encouraged to emulate these virtues within their own lives. This includes a shared life of prayer, fasting, and spiritual growth.

11. Valuing Spiritual over Material Wealth: In choosing a spouse, one should prioritize the beauty of the soul over material wealth or social status. True beauty in an Orthodox sense lies in virtues like humility, kindness, and godliness.

12. Mutual Learning and Spiritual Growth: Couples should engage in spiritual discussions, share insights from religious teachings, and grow together in faith. This mutual spiritual nurturing is a cornerstone of a strong Orthodox marriage.

13. Balancing Rights and Duties in Marriage: St. Paul's teachings about marital duties (1 Corinthians 7:3) emphasize a balance of rights and responsibilities. Both husband and wife should lovingly and respectfully fulfill their roles, ensuring equality and mutual respect in the relationship.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:2213 | date:2024-01-11T21:03:01 ---
(Continued) ☝️

In summary, the Orthodox perspective on marriage and Christian living is deeply rooted in scripture, tradition, and a profound understanding of human nature. It emphasizes the importance of a Christ-centered marriage, mutual respect, spiritual growth, and a life of love and humility. These teachings, if embraced and practiced, can lead to a fulfilling and resilient marriage that not only withstands the trials of this world but also progresses towards eternal salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2217 | date:2024-01-13T21:06:56 ---


--- id:2218 | date:2024-01-13T21:07:01 ---
👉🏾 About our father #Abune #Gebre_Menfes_Kidus

The life and teachings of St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus, a revered figure in Orthodox Christianity, offer a profound testament to the power of faith, asceticism, and divine intervention. His story begins in the land of Egypt, where his parents, Simeon and Aklesia, longed for a child for thirty years. In a miraculous occurrence, akin to the biblical stories of old, a divine voice promised them a son whose glory would surpass the heavens. This prophecy was fulfilled with the birth of Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus.

From his infancy, he exhibited signs of divine favor. His actions as a newborn, glorifying the Holy Trinity, and his angelic lifestyle, abstaining from earthly sustenance, marked him as a holy vessel. At the tender age of three, he was visited by Saint Gabriel, who brought blessings from the Virgin Mary and the celestial host. The Abbot Zemedeberhan, recognizing his sanctity, nurtured him in monastic life, where he flourished in spiritual wisdom and miraculous powers. His fame spread far and wide, leading to a pivotal moment when he healed a thousand blind men, a miracle reminiscent of Christ's own healings.

The spiritual journey of St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus was marked by profound solitude and communion with God. He was called to a life of seclusion in the forest, where his sustenance was of a heavenly nature, symbolic of man's reliance on divine grace rather than earthly provisions. His time in the wilderness was a testament to his unyielding faith and deep communion with God.

The saint's concern for humanity's salvation was paramount. His intercessions led to the liberation of souls from hell, showcasing his immense spiritual authority. His journey to Ethiopia, carried by Saint Gabriel, was a pivotal moment in his mission. There, he prayed fervently for the nation, an act of love and sacrifice, embodying the heart of a true shepherd.

St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus's life was not without trials. His encounter with Satan, who sought to hinder his mission, resulted in his temporary blindness. Yet, in this adversity, he was not forsaken; Saint Michael and Saint Gabriel came to his aid, a testimony to his favored status in the heavenly realms.

His ministry extended to Arabia, where he confronted idolatry and demonstrated the power of Christ through miraculous signs, converting many to Christianity. Even in the face of persecution, his faith remained unshaken, further attesting to his divine calling and steadfastness.

The life of St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus culminated in a glorious ascent, taken by angels to Jerusalem, where he was laid to rest. His earthly journey of 562 years, of which 262 was spent in Ethiopia, was marked by unwavering devotion, miraculous deeds, and a deep, transformative love for God and humanity.

This account of St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus, steeped in the traditions and teachings of Orthodox Christianity, serves as a beacon of spiritual guidance. His life exemplifies the virtues of faith, humility, and divine communion, offering a path to spiritual enlightenment and closeness to God. In his story, we find a profound reminder of the endless possibilities that faith in God can unlock, and the transformative power of living a life dedicated to divine service and love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2222 | date:2024-01-14T23:50:42 ---
👉🏾 General advice for a life of #repentance 

Blessings to you, Avinash, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

Firstly, know that the mercy of God is boundless and His love for us surpasses all our transgressions. As it is written, “If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness” (1 John 1:9). Your desire for repentance is a precious gift from God and the first step towards healing.

In the Orthodox tradition, repentance is not just a feeling of remorse, but a turning away from sin and a turning towards God. The story of the Prodigal Son (Luke 15:11-32) beautifully illustrates this journey. He recognized his sin, felt remorse, and decided to return to his father, confessing his unworthiness. The father, symbolizing God, welcomed him with open arms. This is the kind of loving, forgiving Father we have in heaven.

Your struggle with impurity, especially in this digital age, is a common battle. It is important to remember that our bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit (1 Corinthians 6:19-20), and we are called to honor God with our bodies. This is a struggle of not just the body, but the mind and soul.

As you seek deliverance, regular prayer is essential. Pray for strength, guidance, and the Holy Spirit's presence in your life. Engaging in the reading of Holy Scriptures and the writings of the Church Fathers can provide spiritual nourishment and guidance.

Moreover, finding a spiritual father is vital. In the Orthodox tradition, a spiritual father is a guide and a confessor who can provide personal and spiritual guidance, helping you navigate through your struggles. He can provide you with specific prayers, readings, and practices to help you combat these temptations.

Additionally, engaging in the life of the Church through worship, fasting, and participation in the Holy Sacraments can strengthen your spiritual life. The Sacrament of Confession is particularly important as it is a means of receiving God’s forgiveness and starting anew.

Remember, transformation does not happen overnight. It is a journey that requires patience, perseverance, and faith. God’s grace is sufficient for you, for His power is made perfect in weakness (2 Corinthians 12:9).

In closing, I will indeed pray for your deliverance and for a heart of true repentance. Remember, God’s love is greater than any sin. What will be your first step in this journey towards healing and holiness?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2224 | date:2024-01-15T21:01:41 ---


--- id:2225 | date:2024-01-15T21:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the feast of #circumsicion of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ 

Beloved in Christ, as we gather in the light of the Orthodox faith, let us delve deeply into the profound mystery and significance of the Feast of the Circumcision of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. This feast, often overshadowed by other prominent celebrations in the Christian calendar, holds a wealth of spiritual insights and theological richness that beckon our contemplation and reverence.

The Historical and Theological Context

1. The Jewish Law and Its Fulfillment: The Circumcision of Christ, occurring on the eighth day following His Nativity as prescribed by Jewish law (Leviticus 12:3), stands as a pivotal moment in the New Testament. It signifies not the repudiation but the fulfillment of the Old Covenant. Jesus, the Messiah, enters into the history and customs of His people, sanctifying and transcending them.

2. The Significance of the Eighth Day: In Orthodox theology, the eighth day symbolizes the new creation and the eternal Kingdom of God. By being circumcised on the eighth day, Christ, who is Himself the beginning of the new creation, ushers in a new era of grace, surpassing the limitations of the Law and opening the gates to the eternal Sabbath.

Christ's Humility and Obedience

1. The Kenosis of Christ: The act of circumcision, a moment of vulnerability and pain, is a profound testament to the kenosis (self-emptying) of Christ (Philippians 2:7). In this humble submission, we witness the Incarnate God voluntarily conforming to the frailties and customs of humanity.

2. Obedience to the Law: Christ's circumcision is a testament to His perfect obedience to the Law, a cornerstone of His earthly ministry. It prefigures His ultimate submission on the Cross, where He fulfills the Law completely and definitively.

Theological Implications of the Circumcision

1. A Foretaste of the Passion: The shedding of blood during Christ’s circumcision can be seen as a prefiguration of the Passion. It is the first instance of the Incarnate God shedding blood, symbolizing the ultimate sacrifice for the redemption of humanity.

2. The Incarnation and its Mysteries: The event of circumcision reveals the mystery of the Incarnation: God becoming man, not in appearance only but in reality, subjecting Himself to the conditions of human life, yet without sin.

3. The Unity of Christ's Divine and Human Natures: This feast affirms the doctrine of the Hypostatic Union - the seamless and perfect union of Christ’s divine and human natures. His willingness to be circumcised underscores His full humanity, while the miraculous occurrences surrounding it affirm His divinity.

Spiritual Lessons for the Faithful

1. Imitation of Christ’s Humility: For Christians, the Feast of the Circumcision is a call to emulate Christ’s humility and obedience. It invites us to submit our will to God and adhere to His commandments with a spirit of humility and love.

2. Renewal of Our Spiritual Commitment: Just as circumcision was a sign of the covenant between God and His people, this feast reminds us of our own baptismal vows and our continuous call to live in the newness of life in Christ.

3. Contemplation of the Incarnate Christ: This feast encourages deep contemplation of the mystery of the Incarnation. It invites us to marvel at the profound love and condescension of God, who became man to redeem us.

4. The Journey Towards Theosis: In Orthodox spirituality, theosis (deification) is the process of becoming more like God through Christ. The Feast of the Circumcision reminds us of our journey towards this divine calling, guided by Christ’s example of humility and obedience.

In conclusion, the Feast of the Circumcision of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is not merely a historical commemoration but a profound spiritual event that speaks to the heart of the Christian mystery. It encapsulates the humility, obedience, and divine love of Christ and challenges us to live out these virtues in our journey of faith.

(Continues)👇

--- id:2226 | date:2024-01-15T21:03:02 ---
(Continued) ☝️

As we reflect on this feast, may we be drawn ever closer to the heart of God, embracing the fullness of His revelation in Christ Jesus our Lord, who, in His infinite wisdom and love, has shown us the path to salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2227 | date:2024-01-16T20:30:43 ---


--- id:2229 | date:2024-01-16T20:36:26 ---


--- id:2230 | date:2024-01-16T20:36:26 ---


--- id:2231 | date:2024-01-16T20:36:30 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the annual feast of the Holy #Trinity 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we celebrate the annual feats of the Holy Trinity and so we send you the following lesson so you may read and partake from the blessings of the day. 

The doctrine of the Holy Trinity, central to Orthodox Christianity, speaks of one God in three persons - Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. This mystery, while beyond human comprehension, is a fundamental truth revealing the nature of God as a communion of love. The Holy Trinity is not a mere theological concept but a living reality that invites us into a relationship with the divine.

The Historical and Theological Context

The feast of the Holy Trinity, also known as Pentecost, commemorates the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the apostles, marking the birth of the Church. It is celebrated fifty days after Easter, echoing the Jewish festival of Shavuot. This event fulfills Christ's promise to send the Comforter, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father (John 15:26).

Spiritual Significance

1. Manifestation of Divine Love: The Holy Trinity is the ultimate manifestation of divine love and unity. God, in His nature, is a community of love, and through the Holy Spirit, He invites us into this divine communion.

2. Model for Human Relationships: The Trinity serves as a model for our relationships, teaching us about mutual love, respect, and interdependence. In a world marred by division and strife, the Trinity calls us to live in harmony and love.

3. Source of Spiritual Life: The Holy Spirit, sent on Pentecost, is the giver of life, enlightening and sanctifying believers. This feast reminds us that our spiritual life is rooted in the life of the Trinity.

Practical Lessons for the Faithful

1. Unity in Diversity: Just as the Trinity is three distinct persons in one essence, we, too, are called to live in unity amidst our diversity. This unity is not uniformity but a harmonious coexistence that reflects the divine image.

2. Call to Holiness: Participation in the life of the Trinity is a call to holiness. As the Holy Spirit transforms us, we are invited to grow in virtue and love, reflecting the image of God in the world.

3. The Church as a Reflection of the Trinity: The Church, as the body of Christ, is a reflection of the Trinitarian communion. In our worship, fellowship, and service, we manifest the love and unity of the Trinity.

4. Stewardship of Creation: Understanding God as Trinity deepens our appreciation for His creation. Just as the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit work in perfect harmony, we are called to be responsible stewards of the environment.

Concluding Reflection

In the annual feast of the Holy Trinity, we are reminded of the profound mystery of God's nature and the invitation to participate in His divine life. This feast challenges us to reflect on the nature of our relationships, our call to holiness, and our role in the Church and the world. Let us, therefore, approach this feast with reverence and joy, embracing the lessons it teaches us about God and ourselves.

As we celebrate this sacred feast, let us echo the words of John Chrysostom: "Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, both now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen." Let us live in the light of this Trinitarian mystery, growing in love, unity, and holiness.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2236 | date:2024-01-18T21:31:15 ---


--- id:2237 | date:2024-01-18T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Feast of #Epiphany

Beloved in Christ, gathered in the fellowship of faith, let us immerse ourselves in the profound mysteries of the Epiphany, a feast of paramount significance in our Orthodox tradition. This holy day, rich in spiritual depth, unveils to us the radiant face of our Savior, Jesus Christ, in His baptism in the Jordan River.

1. The Essence of Epiphany: The Revelation of Trinity
At the core of the Epiphany lies the manifestation of the Holy Trinity. As Christ, the incarnate Word, descends into the waters, the heavens open, and the Spirit descends like a dove, while the Father's voice proclaims, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased" (Matthew 3:17). This divine scene marks not only the affirmation of Christ's sonship but also reveals the Trinitarian God in a unique and unparalleled manner.

2. The Baptism of Christ: A Divine Condescension
In this divine act, the sinless One submits Himself to baptism, not for the purification of His own nature, but to sanctify the waters and, by extension, the whole of creation. Christ's baptism symbolizes the purification and regeneration that await humanity. St. John Chrysostom, in his eloquent homilies, often emphasized that Christ's baptism was His first step towards the Cross, a manifestation of His humility and love for mankind.

3. The Symbolism of Water in Orthodox Theology
Water, in Orthodox spirituality, is not merely an element but a symbol of life, purification, and a means of sanctification. In the baptism of Christ, water becomes the medium of divine blessing. As Christ enters the waters, He imparts to them a grace that they did not possess before, making every baptismal font a womb of new birth in the Spirit.

4. The Liturgical Celebration of Epiphany
The Orthodox Church celebrates this feast with great solemnity. Liturgies are marked by the Great Blessing of Water, symbolizing Christ's sanctification of the Jordan. These waters, blessed on Epiphany, are believed to carry the grace of the feast throughout the year. The faithful partake of this holy water, seeking spiritual renewal and protection.

5. Epiphany as a Call to Spiritual Renewal
The feast of Epiphany is not merely a historical commemoration but a call to each believer. It invites us to reflect on our own baptism, where we died with Christ and rose to new life. It is a summons to live out our baptismal vows, to renounce sin, and to affirm our loyalty to Christ. In the words of St. John Chrysostom, "As many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ" (Galatians 3:27).

6. Epiphany: A Model of Christian Virtue
The humility and obedience of Christ in His baptism are models for Christian living. In submitting to baptism, Christ exemplifies the virtues of humility and obedience, virtues that are essential for every Christian. The feast reminds us that our spiritual journey is one of constant humility and submission to God's will.

7. The Theophany and the Christian Mission
Finally, Epiphany propels us towards mission. Just as Christ revealed Himself to the world, we too are called to be lights of Christ in the world. Our lives should manifest the grace we have received in baptism, drawing others to the love and light of Christ.

In conclusion, the feast of Epiphany in the Orthodox Church is a profound celebration, rich in theological meaning and spiritual significance. It is a feast that not only commemorates Christ's baptism but also invites us to dive deeper into the mystery of our faith, to live out our baptismal calling, and to bear witness to the Light of the world, Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior. Let us, therefore, approach this feast with reverence and joy, immersing ourselves in the grace it offers. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2244 | date:2024-01-21T21:42:01 ---


--- id:2245 | date:2024-01-21T21:43:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Divine Mystery of the Wedding at #Cana of #Galilee 

In the hallowed shadow of our forefathers in faith, let us delve into the profound mystery of the Wedding at Cana, where our Lord Jesus Christ, in His divine wisdom and grace, performed His first miracle. This event, gloriously recounted in the Gospel of Saint John (John 2:1-11), is not merely a narrative of a miraculous transformation of water into wine, but a profound theological revelation, unveiling the depths of Christ's divinity, the sanctity of marriage, and the intercessory role of the Blessed Virgin Mary.

At the outset, let us contemplate the setting: a wedding in Cana of Galilee. Marriage, as instituted by God, is a sacred covenant, a reflection of Christ's union with His Church. Here, at a humble wedding, Christ chooses to begin His public ministry, thus sanctifying the marital bond and affirming its divine purpose.

The scarcity of wine, a symbol of joy and abundance in Jewish culture, becomes the canvas upon which Christ would display His glory. The Virgin Mary, ever attentive to human needs, approaches her Son, saying, "They have no wine." Her intercession is a profound act of faith, a testament to her role as a mediator between humanity and her Divine Son.

Christ's response, "Woman, what have I to do with you? My hour has not yet come," is often misunderstood. In the Semitic context, the term "Woman" is a respectful address, a recognition of dignity. Moreover, His words are not a rebuke but an invitation to deeper understanding. Christ is pointing to the ultimate "hour" – His Passion and Resurrection, where the true "wine" of salvation, His redeeming Blood, would be poured out for humanity.

The instruction to fill jars with water signifies the transformation of the old to the new, the inauguration of the New Covenant. Water, a symbol of purification in Jewish tradition, is transformed into wine, a foretaste of the Eucharistic wine, His Blood, which cleanses and gives eternal life.

The miracle at Cana is a manifestation of divine glory, revealing Christ as the Lord of creation, who transforms and sanctifies. It is also a sign of the eschatological banquet, where Christ, the Bridegroom, unites with His Bride, the Church, in eternal communion.

The Blessed Virgin Mary's words, "Do whatever he tells you," echo through the ages, a perpetual guidance for all believers. Her directive encapsulates the essence of Christian discipleship: obedience to Christ's word.

In summary, the Wedding at Cana is a theological microcosm, encapsulating the mysteries of Christ's Incarnation, His sanctification of marriage, the transformative power of His miracles, and the intercessory role of the Virgin Mary. As Orthodox believers, we are called to ponder these mysteries deeply, allowing them to transform our lives, just as water was transformed into wine.

Thus, let us approach this divine mystery not merely as a historical event but as a living reality, permeating our lives with its transformative grace. In the Wedding at Cana, we find the model of Christian life: faith in Christ's divinity, trust in Mary's intercession, and the sanctity of the marital bond. As we meditate on this mystery, let it deepen our faith, guide our actions, and lead us closer to the divine Bridegroom, Jesus Christ, in whose eternal banquet we hope to partake. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2253 | date:2024-01-23T21:00:01 ---


--- id:2254 | date:2024-01-23T21:01:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Essence and Purpose of #Religion

Religion, in its profoundest essence, is not merely an institution of rituals, doctrines, and moral codes; it is the living relationship between the created and the Creator. This relationship is founded on the recognition of our own existence as a testament to a Creator, for none can claim self-creation. In this realization, the human soul embarks on a quest, not for worldly knowledge, but for divine revelation and communion with God.

The Orthodox Christian faith perceives religion as a divine bridge, constructed by God, to reconcile humanity to Himself. It is through this bridge that the soul traverses the chasm of sin and death, seeking salvation and eternal life. This journey of faith is not a solitary path but one illuminated by the teachings of Christ and the traditions of the Church.

The Uniqueness of the Orthodox Christian Faith

Orthodox Christianity holds that the fullness of religious truth is embodied in its teachings, derived from the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and perpetuated through the Holy Spirit in the Church. This faith is not a human invention or a philosophical construct; it is a revelation from God, imparted to humanity for our salvation.

The centrality of Jesus Christ in Orthodoxy is paramount. As Saint Peter proclaimed, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God" (Matthew 16:16), this confession forms the bedrock of Christian belief. Orthodox Christianity asserts that it alone has preserved the faith "once delivered to the saints" (Jude 1:3), maintaining the purity of apostolic doctrine without alteration or diminishment.

The Oneness of True Religion

Orthodox Christianity does not view religious pluralism as a spectrum of equally valid truths but rather upholds the singularity of the Christian faith as the sole path to divine truth. This exclusivity is grounded in the belief in one God, one Lord, one faith, and one baptism (Ephesians 4:5). The multiplicity of religions and Christian denominations is seen not as a reflection of divine will but as a consequence of human divergence from the original deposit of faith.

The Orthodox Church, therefore, stands as a custodian of this unaltered apostolic faith, tracing its lineage directly to Christ and His apostles. In its liturgy, theology, and spirituality, Orthodoxy strives to embody and transmit this sacred tradition, unswayed by the changing tides of human thought and culture.

The Living Experience of Orthodoxy

Orthodox Christianity is not merely a set of beliefs to be affirmed but a life to be lived. It invites the faithful into a transformative journey, marked by prayer, sacraments, asceticism, and a continual striving for holiness. This path is not easy; it demands dedication, humility, and a relentless pursuit of union with God.

The role of the Church in this journey is indispensable. As a community of believers, the Church offers guidance, support, and the means of grace necessary for spiritual growth. It is in the context of this communal life that the individual believer encounters Christ, particularly in the sacraments, which are viewed as tangible means of receiving God's grace.

Conclusion: The Call to Orthodoxy

In conclusion, from an Orthodox perspective, religion is not a mere human endeavor to comprehend the divine; it is the divinely instituted means by which humanity is brought into communion with God. Orthodoxy claims to hold the fullness of this truth, encapsulated in the person of Jesus Christ and preserved within the life of the Church.

This understanding of religion challenges each individual to consider their spiritual journey not as a search for subjective truth but as a quest for the eternal truth revealed by God. It invites all to partake in the rich heritage of the Orthodox faith, to discover in it the path to salvation, and to embrace the transformative power of living in communion with God.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2267 | date:2024-01-26T20:30:51 ---


--- id:2268 | date:2024-01-26T20:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy #Eucharist 

Brethren in the Lord, who stand steadfast in the unwavering Orthodox faith, grace unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Today we will be learning about the holy Eucharist, which stands as the pinnacle of our redemption and the very lifeblood of the Church.

✍ The Incarnation: The Prologue to the Eucharist

Before we venture into the holy of holies, let us lay a foundation by reflecting upon the Incarnation, which is the cornerstone of all Christian doctrine. In the fullness of time, God, in His inscrutable wisdom, willed to be united with man. "The Word became flesh and dwelt among us" (John 1:14). This is not a mere visitation but an abiding union. The Godhead was pleased to dwell bodily (Colossians 2:9), and in this union, the natures of divinity and humanity are neither confounded nor separated but are united without mixture or change.

In this mystical union, Christ fully assumed our nature, bearing our griefs, carrying our sorrows, yet without sin. As Saint Cyril rightly proclaimed, the nature that needed salvation was not passed over. Thus, the unblemished Lamb, perfect God and perfect Man, presented Himself as the only sacrifice capable of redeeming our fallen state.

✍ The Eucharist: The Continuation of Incarnation

The Eucharist, dear faithful, is not separate from this grand narrative; it is the perpetuation of the Incarnation. Just as the divine nature did not obliterate the human in Christ, so the essence of bread and wine is not destroyed when consecrated as the Body and Blood. Here, the Church in her wisdom teaches us that in this Holy Sacrament, there is a mystical but real transformation, akin to the Incarnation itself.

As the Lord Jesus, at His Last Supper, did not speak in parables when He said, "This is my body... This is my blood" (Matthew 26:26-28), we take Him at His divine word, acknowledging a mystery that cannot be fathomed by the human mind but is apprehended by faith.

✍ The Eucharist: The Apex of Theology

In the Eucharist, we find the sum and summit of all theological truth. It is the tangible expression of God's love, the assurance of His promise, the fulfillment of the covenant. The Eucharist stands as a foretaste of the eschatological feast, where the Church militant and the Church triumphant are united in the worship of the Lamb.

This Sacrament is not a mere remembrance but an anamnesis, a making present of the one sacrifice of Calvary. In the Divine Liturgy, we are lifted above time and space, and the events of our redemption are made present to us, that we might partake of the fruits of the Tree of Life which is Christ Himself.

✍ The Eucharist: The Medicine of Immortality

Saint Ignatius of Antioch called the Eucharist the "medicine of immortality," and rightly so. For as much as the body requires bread for sustenance, so too does the soul require the Body of Christ for eternal life. In this Holy Communion, we are united to Christ and through Him to one another, forming one body, of which He is the head.

To partake of the Eucharist unworthily is to eat and drink judgment upon oneself (1 Corinthians 11:29). Hence, the Church, as a loving mother, calls her children to approach with a pure heart, having confessed and repented, that they might be made partakers of divine nature (2 Peter 1:4).

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:2269 | date:2024-01-26T20:36:02 ---
✍ Conclusion: The Call to Union with Christ

The Eucharist calls us to a life of holiness and union with Christ. It is not an end in itself but the means to our sanctification and salvation. To commune is to abide in Christ and to have Christ abide in us. Here, the faithful are invited to partake of the divine banquet, to enter into the joy of their Master, and to be transformed into the image of the One who gave Himself up for us all.

Let us, therefore, draw near with faith and with an ardent desire to be united with Christ, to be healed by His touch, and to be sanctified by His life-giving Body and Blood. May this Holy Sacrament be for us a pledge of the world to come and a haven of salvation in this present age.

In the words of our beloved Saint John Chrysostom, "O taste and see that the Lord is good" (Psalm 34:8), and let us partake of this banquet with the angels, making earth

 join with heaven, in the unending hymn of praise.

Through the prayers of our Holy Fathers, Lord Jesus Christ our God, have mercy on us. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2274 | date:2024-01-27T22:01:44 ---


--- id:2275 | date:2024-01-27T22:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Continued lesson on the #Epiphany 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, in the tradition of the ancient Fathers, let us delve into the details of the Epiphany, the Theophany, where the heavens opened and the Spirit of God descended like a dove upon the Anointed One, our Lord Jesus Christ. This divine manifestation is not merely an event in the temporal order but a theological epiphany unveiling the deepest mysteries of the Christian faith, rooted in the Holy Orthodox Tradition.

Why Did Our Lord Deem It Necessary to Be Baptized?

To unveil the Trinity: At the baptism of our Lord in the sacred Jordan, the heavens themselves were rent asunder, not merely to reveal the azure sky but to unveil the very mystery of the Holy Trinity. The Father's voice, resplendent and full of divine affection, declared, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." Here, the Son stood in the Jordan, and the Spirit descended in the form of a dove, marking the moment not just as a revelation but as a divine affirmation of the Trinity's undivided and co-equal majesty.

To fulfill all righteousness: Christ's baptism by John in the flowing Jordan was no mere conformity to ritual or law but a profound fulfillment of all that the prophets had foreseen. In descending into the waters, Christ sanctified them, turning the river into a font of rebirth for all who would follow Him in baptism. This act was not for His purification, for He is sinless, but to mark the beginning of the new creation in Him.

To inaugurate His public ministry: The Jordan's waters, then, became the threshold over which Christ stepped into His public ministry. At the age of thirty, according to the custom of the Levitical priesthood, He was revealed to Israel and began His salvific work. This was the moment foretold by the prophets, where the voice crying in the wilderness would prepare the way for the Lord.

What Significance Does the Jordan River Hold?

The choice of the Jordan River by Divine providence is rich in symbolic depth, echoing the Israelites' crossing into the Promised Land, signifying a new exodus, not from the bondage of Egypt but from the shackles of sin and death. The Jordan becomes a foretype of baptism, where the faithful cross from the old life of sin into the new life in Christ.

Why Was the Holy Spirit Manifested as a Dove?

The descent of the Holy Spirit as a dove upon Christ at His baptism is laden with symbolism. The dove, emblematic of purity and peace, signifies the gentle coming of the grace of the Holy Spirit. This manifestation not only confirmed the divinity of Christ to those present but also prefigured the peace and reconciliation that He would bring to humanity.

Why Is Epiphany Celebrated?

Epiphany, or Theophany, is celebrated as a feast of manifestation. On this day, the Church commemorates not just a historical event but a theological revelation: the manifestation of Christ as the Messiah and Son of God, and the revelation of the Holy Trinity. It is a feast that illuminates the darkness of the world with the light of Christ, showing forth the path to salvation through the waters of baptism.

In the blessed feast of Epiphany, then, we find a compendium of our faith: the affirmation of the Trinity, the sanctification of the waters of baptism, and the inauguration of the Lord's saving ministry. Let us, therefore, approach this feast with awe and reverence, seeking to live out the realities it unveils in our own journey of faith, baptized into Christ, walking in newness of life, and ever moving towards the light of His eternal kingdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2276 | date:2024-01-28T20:31:30 ---
https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZT8tKQMr4/

--- id:2278 | date:2024-01-29T23:01:51 ---


--- id:2279 | date:2024-01-29T23:02:42 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Dormition of the Most Holy #Theotokos

Beloved members of John's Repentanc Spiritual service, let us delve deeply into the profound mystery and celestial celebration of the Dormition of the Most Holy Theotokos, the Virgin Mary, whose repose not only marks an event of sacred transition but also a testament to the ineffable workings of Divine Grace and Love in the Christian narrative.

The Prophetic Revelation of the Repose: The narrative of Mary’s Dormition commences with a divine revelation, much like the annunciation of her bearing the Christ Child. The Holy Spirit, ever-present and guiding, reveals to Mary her imminent departure from this mortal realm. This moment is profoundly significant, not just in its foretelling of an event, but in its affirmation of Mary's deep and unceasing communion with God. It is a testament to her sanctity and her pivotal role in the salvific history of mankind.

The Gathering of Apostles: In a miraculous confluence orchestrated by the Divine, the apostles are brought from the ends of the earth, transcending the bounds of physical limitations, to be at Mary's side. This gathering, much like that at Pentecost, symbolizes the unity and universality of the Church. The apostles, who had been dispersed to spread the Gospel, are once again united, signifying the central role of Mary in the Christian faith as the Mother of God, the spiritual Mother of the Church.

Mary's Prayer and Intercession: In her final hours, Mary's thoughts are not for herself but for the world, for the faithful, and for the apostolic mission. Her prayer is an embodiment of her life-long fiat, her unwavering "Yes" to God. She intercedes for all who call upon her name, reflecting her role as a mediatrix, who perpetually stands before her Son, interceding on behalf of humanity.

The Miraculous Events and Teachings: The happenings surrounding Mary's repose are replete with miracles, a sign of Heaven's close involvement in this sacred event. The blind see, the lame walk, reflecting not just physical healing but also spiritual awakening. These miracles are a testament to the transformative power of Christ, whom Mary bore, and a foretaste of the eschatological healing to come.

The Ascension of Mary's Soul: The separation of Mary's soul from her body and its ascension into heaven is a singular event. It speaks to the sanctity of Mary, untainted by original sin, and her unique role in the economy of salvation. Christ himself, in a tender and filial gesture, receives her soul, highlighting the deep, ineffable bond between Mother and Son.

The Promise of the Resurrection: In the Orthodox tradition, the Dormition is not merely about death; it is also about the promise of resurrection. The bodily assumption of Mary into heaven prefigures the general resurrection and the glorification of all flesh. It's a sign of hope and a confirmation of the words of Christ regarding the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come.

The Intercession of Mary and the Role of the Faithful: The narrative concludes with a profound affirmation of Mary’s intercessory power and her role in the divine economy of salvation. Christ's promise to hear the prayers made in her name is a powerful testament to the honor bestowed upon her by God. It invites the faithful to seek her intercession, reinforcing the tradition of venerating the Theotokos in the Orthodox faith.

In conclusion, the Dormition of the Theotokos is a celebration of Mary's earthly life and her transition into eternal life. It is a reminder of her role as the Mother of God, her perpetual intercession, and her participation in the divine plan of salvation. This event, rich in symbolism and theological significance, calls the faithful not only to venerate Mary but also to emulate her complete surrender to God's will and her unyielding faith in His promises.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2300 | date:2024-01-30T22:30:02 ---


--- id:2301 | date:2024-01-30T22:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Words of #wisdom about #marriage

Behoved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, let us delve into an in-depth exploration of Orthodox wisdom, particularly in the context of marriage and Christian living.

1. The Foundation of Orthodox Marriage: In Orthodox Christianity, marriage is not merely a social contract but a sacred covenant. It is grounded in the Biblical teachings and the divine purpose for matrimony. As Christ said, building one's house on a rock ensures it withstands life's storms (Matthew 7:24-25). Similarly, a marriage built on the rock of faith, mutual respect, and godly principles is resilient and enduring.

2. Roles and Responsibilities in Marriage: The Orthodox tradition emphasizes distinct but complementary roles for husbands and wives. The husband is called to be the spiritual leader, guiding his family towards righteousness and peace. The wife's role involves respectful support and cooperation, contributing to the harmony and stability of the family (1 Corinthians 12:17).

3. Spiritual Leadership of the Husband: A husband's spirituality is pivotal in maintaining the sanctity and peace of the home. His leadership is not about dominance, but about guiding the family towards God's glory, embodying love, patience, and understanding.

4. Mutual Submission and Respect: While the Scripture teaches wives to submit to their husbands (Ephesians 5:22), this does not imply inequality. Mutual respect and love are the bedrock of an Orthodox marriage. Submission in this context is about humility and selflessness, mirroring Christ's love for the Church.

5. Understanding and Accommodating Differences: Recognizing and respecting the inherent differences between husbands and wives are crucial. These differences, ordained by God, are meant to complement each other, leading to a harmonious and balanced relationship.

6. Spiritual Practices in Marriage: Fasting, prayer, and abstinence are practices that can deepen the spiritual connection between husband and wife. These practices, when undertaken with mutual consent and understanding, strengthen the couple's bond and their relationship with God.

7. Bearing Each Other's Burdens: Galatians 6:2 calls us to bear one another's burdens. In marriage, this means being patient and forgiving, understanding that conflicts may arise but can be overcome through love, patience, and mutual support.

8. Living a Life of Love: An Orthodox marriage is a journey of love, resembling the selfless love Christ has for the Church. It's about serving each other, carrying each other's crosses, and walking together on the path of salvation.

9. Avoiding Negative Influences: Couples should be wary of external temptations such as negative family interference or harmful advice. Instead, they should seek counsel from spiritual leaders and rely on their faith to guide them through challenges.

10. Emulating Monastic Virtues in Marriage: While monasticism represents the pinnacle of Christian devotion, married couples are encouraged to emulate these virtues within their own lives. This includes a shared life of prayer, fasting, and spiritual growth.

11. Valuing Spiritual over Material Wealth: In choosing a spouse, one should prioritize the beauty of the soul over material wealth or social status. True beauty in an Orthodox sense lies in virtues like humility, kindness, and godliness.

12. Mutual Learning and Spiritual Growth: Couples should engage in spiritual discussions, share insights from religious teachings, and grow together in faith. This mutual spiritual nurturing is a cornerstone of a strong Orthodox marriage.

13. Balancing Rights and Duties in Marriage: St. Paul's teachings about marital duties (1 Corinthians 7:3) emphasize a balance of rights and responsibilities. Both husband and wife should lovingly and respectfully fulfill their roles, ensuring equality and mutual respect in the relationship.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:2302 | date:2024-01-30T22:36:02 ---
(Continued) ☝️

In summary, the Orthodox perspective on marriage and Christian living is deeply rooted in scripture, tradition, and a profound understanding of human nature. It emphasizes the importance of a Christ-centered marriage, mutual respect, spiritual growth, and a life of love and humility. These teachings, if embraced and practiced, can lead to a fulfilling and resilient marriage that not only withstands the trials of this world but also progresses towards eternal salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2305 | date:2024-01-31T22:31:17 ---


--- id:2306 | date:2024-01-31T22:31:17 ---


--- id:2307 | date:2024-01-31T22:31:17 ---


--- id:2308 | date:2024-01-31T22:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Radiance of #Saint #George: Martyrdom and Light

In the vast tapestry of Christian saints and martyrs, St. George stands as an emblem of unwavering faith, luminous courage, and an ethereal embodiment of Christ's light. His tale, while ancient, brings forth lessons that are eternally valuable, ever relevant, and strikingly profound.

Born Amidst Piety and Purity

Hailing from Cappadocia, a region known for its deeply spiritual ethos, St. George was born in 280 A.D. to a lineage of nobles who were devout Christians. From a tender age, he was bathed in the teachings of Christ, absorbing the essence of love, sacrifice, and redemption.

The Soldier of Christ in a Material World

Choosing a life in the Roman army was not merely a temporal decision for young George. It was his means to weave spiritual principles within worldly duties. As he climbed ranks, his integrity and virtue were undeniable. Rumors suggest his friendship with the future Emperor Constantine, but the true heart of St. George’s legend lies not in alliances but in his audacious proclamation of faith.

Dark Times and a Light that Never Dimmed

The Eastern Empire's heartbeat, Nicomedia, became the epicenter of an unprecedented assault on Christianity. Emperor Diocletian, in 303 A.D., issued an edict that sought to obliterate Christian existence. Sacred places of worship were razed, scriptures set aflame, and believers met with unspeakable horrors.

Yet, amidst this suffocating darkness, St. George emerged as a beacon of divine light. With heavenly audacity, he tore the very edict that condemned his kin and faith. This act was not of rebellion, but of celestial affirmation.

Divine Dialogues with Diocletian

Emperor Diocletian, both fascinated and threatened by George’s undying spirit, sought to lure him with promises of grandeur. But how can earthly titles tempt a soul that had tasted divine love? Threats of torture were also in vain. For every wound inflicted upon his mortal coil, George’s spirit soared higher.

Chastity and Celestial Companionship

One poignant episode is of Diocletian sending a woman of unparalleled beauty to lead George astray. However, George, with eyes only for the Divine, became a conduit of grace. The very woman sent to seduce him became enraptured by Christ's love, boldly professing her newfound faith and joining the choir of martyrs.

Martyrdom and the Resounding Echo of Faith

St. George’s trials, both physical and spiritual, were manifold. Tortured in ways that defy human imagination, he was raised by Christ Himself, only to be tested again. Yet, every test left onlookers astounded, leading many to embrace Christianity. The Emperor's vexation reached a crescendo, and he ordered a poison so potent it was deemed undefiable. Yet, the Saint, with merely the sign of the cross, rendered it harmless.

Diocletian, unable to comprehend such grace, granted George a final audience. Offered a last chance to forsake Christ, George’s response was resounding. He chose martyrdom over betrayal. His beheading was not a mere execution; it was his final act of love for Christ.

Legacy: A Beacon for Eternity

Word of George's martyrdom spread like wildfire. The Christian diaspora began venerating him, constructing places of worship in his name. His feast on April 23rd became a sacred day of remembrance. With time, legends like his conquest of the dragon emerged, symbolizing the victory of good over insurmountable evil.

Saint George remains an eternal symbol of hope, courage, and unyielding faith. In his story, we are reminded that, faced with adversities, true faith never wavers. In the midst of darkness, it is the light of Christ, as witnessed in the life of St. George, that will guide us home.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2339 | date:2024-02-01T22:30:58 ---


--- id:2340 | date:2024-02-01T22:30:58 ---


--- id:2341 | date:2024-02-01T22:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Tekle_Haymanot 

Dear members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today we send you a lesson on St. Tekle Haymanot, who's monthly feast we celebrated yesterday so that you may better understand his story and use it as an inspiration to shape yours. 

Venerated Pillar of Apostolic Faith

Just as a well-nurtured tree yields bounteous fruit, so too is the true faith enriched and passed down by holy servants of the Lord. Consider the chronicles of Saint Tekle Haymanot, the radiant beacon of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.

Born to the world on December 27, 1214 AD, his entry into this realm had been divinely announced the prior year, on March 27, 1214 AD. Originally christened "Fiseha Zion," he was reared under this name and in the devout shadow of his father, Tzaga Ze'ab. Young Fiseha Zion immersed himself in holy scriptures, the Bluyat and the Hadisat, manifesting an early zeal for divine matters. Legend recounts his prowess as a hunter, but in a profound epiphany, the heavens rent asunder, revealing our Savior Jesus Christ, borne on the wings of Archangel Michael, with a celestial chorus of angels in tow. Addressing the astounded youth, our Lord decreed, "Henceforth, you shall bear the name 'Planted Trinity,' and your hunt shall no longer be for game, but for souls. Fear not, for I am perpetually at your side." And then, as mysteriously as He had appeared, our Lord vanished into the heavenly expanse.

Armed with this divine mandate, Saint Tekle Haymanot distributed his earthly possessions among the needy and embarked on a divine mission, starting at Mnane. Ordained by the Pope, he began evangelizing with such enthusiasm that his very first sermon led ten thousand souls in the region of "Shwa Tsilalesh" to baptism. He then traversed vast tracts of Ethiopia, reclaiming lands and souls lost to foreign religions due to past onslaughts by Judith and Islamic influence. He unflinchingly faced down the heretical Marian sorcerers.

Apart from his evangelical conquests, Saint Tekle Haymanot was a cornerstone of monasticism in Ethiopia. His dedication saw him serve in three renowned monasteries: Abune Besilote Michael Monastery for twelve years, Abune Jesus Moa Zahaiq Monastery for seven years, and Debre Damo for another seven years alongside Abune Yohani. This sums up to an impressive twenty-six years. Post his monastic commitments, he retreated to Medreshwa (Zorre), where he spent twenty-two years in deep prayer, during which he famously planted six spears around him and prayed continuously for seven years.

His faith was not confined to Ethiopia. Spiritual encounters and blessings marked his pilgrimage to Jerusalem. At the sight of the sacred places, including Christ's crucifixion at Calvary, he wept bitterly. Legend speaks of a divine vision he received wherein he beheld the Holy Trinity in its unity and trinity and declared, "Glory to the Holy Trinity," before descending back to earth.

The miraculous exploits of Saint Tekle Haymanot are innumerable. He resurrected the dead, healed the ailing, exorcised demons, and performed wonders that transcended the earthly realm. He was a luminary, a beacon guiding many towards the light of Orthodoxy, and even founded Mount Lebanon Monastery, a unique abode where male and female monks coexisted in spiritual harmony. After a lifetime replete with tribulations and triumphs for the faith, he entered the heavenly abode at the age of ninety-nine, on August 25, 1314 AD.

May the blessings and intercession of our revered father, Saint Tekle Haymanot, always be our fortress and guide, amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2342 | date:2024-02-02T21:33:33 ---


--- id:2343 | date:2024-02-02T21:34:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Iconography

The genesis of sacred imagery is deeply rooted in the divine commandments and the holy scriptures, where the Most High God instructed the prophet Moses to fashion cherubs on the Ark of the Covenant. These cherubs, with wings outstretched, gazing upon the mercy seat, signify not only the presence of God but also the reverence and awe due to Him. This commandment underscores the sanctity and significance of images as conduits of divine reality, a tradition that the Church has meticulously preserved and revered through the ages.

In the holy scriptures, we are told, "In the Holy of Holies, he made two cherubs of olive wood, each ten cubits high...and he carved all the walls of the house round about with carved figures of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, within and without" (1 Kings 6:23-29). Such scriptural passages illuminate the early and profound integration of sacred art within the spaces of worship, sanctifying them as realms where heaven and earth mysteriously intersect.

The venerable prophet Ezekiel, too, was commanded, "Son of man, take a brick, and lay it before thee, and portray upon it the city, even Jerusalem" (Ezekiel 4:1). This act of portrayal was not mere artistic endeavor but a profound theological statement, embodying the hope, prophecy, and divine presence amidst the people of God. Thus, from the earliest times, iconography served as a catechetical tool, a means of theological expression, and a window into the heavenly kingdom.

The Orthodox Church, in her wisdom, has always understood icons not as mere religious decorations but as holy objects of veneration. Icons are not worshipped, but through them, we offer our veneration to the prototype. This distinction was definitively articulated in the Second Council of Nicaea in 787, which resolved the iconoclastic controversy by affirming the veneration of icons as orthodox and necessary for the full expression of the Christian faith. Icons, therefore, serve as manifestations of God's incarnational reality, bridging the divine with the human, making the invisible God visible through the holy faces of Christ, the Theotokos, and the saints.

In creating icons, the iconographer embarks on a sacred task, one that begins with prayer and fasting, seeking divine inspiration and guidance. The process of iconography is a liturgical act, requiring purity of heart and a deep communion with the saints whose images are being rendered. The colors, symbols, and compositions used in icons are laden with theological meaning: red signifies the blood of martyrdom, white symbolizes purity and the Resurrection, and blue denotes the divinity of Christ. The size and placement of icons are also considered with great care, reflecting their theological significance and role within the sacred space.

However, the veneration of icons is not without its challenges and controversies. Throughout history, the Church has navigated disputes regarding iconography, always seeking to preserve the integrity and orthodoxy of sacred images. In our contemporary context, we must remain vigilant against deviations from traditional iconography, ensuring that the icons we venerate accurately reflect the teachings and traditions of the Church. This requires discernment and education, seeking the guidance of the Church Fathers, theologians, and liturgical traditions.

In conclusion, the Orthodox veneration of icons is a profound testament to the Incarnation of Christ and the sanctification of matter. Icons are windows to heaven, through which we glimpse the divine and are drawn into a deeper communion with God and His saints. They are not merely art; they are theology in color, inviting us into a transformative encounter with the holy. Let us, therefore, approach icons with reverence and love, recognizing in them the presence of the holy and the call to holiness in our own lives.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

© John's Repentance
 https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2356 | date:2024-02-03T21:31:31 ---


--- id:2357 | date:2024-02-03T21:33:01 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ Why do we say "turn to the east" during #Liturgy? 

Answer፦ In the observances of our Orthodox liturgy, the act of turning towards the east transcends mere ritualistic formality, embodying instead a profound theological and spiritual orientation that unites us, in both memory and hope, to the very essence of our faith. Let us delve deeply into this sacred tradition, that its significance might illuminate our hearts as the rising sun illuminates the world.

From time immemorial, the east has beckoned to the human spirit as the cradle of divine revelation and the harbinger of the new dawn. It is towards this sacred horizon that our churches are meticulously oriented, guiding our collective gaze towards the birthplace of salvation, where the narrative of redemption unfolds in the radiant light of God’s mercy.

The east, as the domicile of our primordial heritage, harks back to the very beginnings of mankind in the Garden of Eden, positioned in the east, according to ancient texts. This direction thus becomes a symbol of our origins and our ultimate destination, the heavenly realm promised to us. Each orientation towards the east during liturgy is a vivid remembrance of this promise, a gesture that embodies our yearning for re-entry into that lost paradise, now transformed through Christ’s salvific work into the hope of eternal life.

Moreover, the nativity of our Lord in the east serves as a testament to the dawn of God's mercy upon humanity. The Magi, guided by the celestial star, embarked on their eastward journey, a journey that each Christian symbolically undertakes during the liturgy. This star, emblematic of divine guidance, beckons us to follow in their footsteps, leading us to the manger where light eternal was born into the world. Thus, turning to the east is to remember the Incarnation, a pivotal moment when the Divine mingled with the human, illuminating our path with the promise of redemption.

The Virgin Mary, revered as the dawn heralding the Sun of Righteousness, embodies the east’s spiritual significance. Just as the sun dispels the darkness at dawn, so did the birth of Christ through Mary illuminate a world ensnared in sin's shadow. This symbolic association underscores her role in the divine economy of salvation, making our eastward turn a commemoration of her who is theotokos, the Mother of God, and the luminous portal through which the true Light came into the world.

The redemptive sacrifice of Christ, enacted in the east, further consecrates this direction in the Christian liturgical tradition. Jerusalem, the city of His passion, death, and resurrection, anchors our faith's historical and spiritual reality in the eastern landscape. In turning east, we thus commemorate the paschal mystery, the crux of our faith, where through His Cross and Resurrection, Christ triumphed over death, offering us the path to salvation.

Our ecclesiastical heritage, rooted in the eastern origins of Christianity, finds its expression in this liturgical orientation. The early Church, burgeoning forth from Jerusalem, disseminated the Gospel from this eastern heartland. In facing east, we thus align ourselves with the apostolic journey, tracing the Church’s growth from its nascent beginnings to its global expanse, a testament to the enduring and universal message of hope and salvation.

The liturgical invocation to "look to the east" is, therefore, a call to remembrance, to faith, and to hope. It is an invitation to contemplate the manifold ways in which God’s grace has been manifested from the east - through creation, through the Incarnation, through the saints and martyrs who have gone before us, and in the eschatological hope of Christ’s Second Coming from the east.

In this sacred act, we are not merely turning our bodies towards a geographical direction; we are orienting our souls towards the Light of the World, whose rising we eagerly await.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:2358 | date:2024-02-03T21:36:01 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

It is a gesture laden with eschatological significance, a physical and spiritual posture of readiness for the Day of the Lord, when the true Light will dawn in its fullness.

Thus, as we turn towards the east in our liturgical rites, let us do so with hearts aflame with love, minds illuminated by faith, and souls stirred by the hope of the Resurrection. In this sacred orientation, may we find the strength to traverse the wilderness of this world, guided by the Star of Bethlehem towards the heavenly Jerusalem, where Christ, the Sun of Righteousness, reigns eternally.

Blessed be God, the Mother of God, the Holy Cross, and all the saints, now and unto the ages of ages. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2363 | date:2024-02-05T21:03:41 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

👉🏾 Question from member: I often feel depressed and lonely. Life has no meaning to me, I just want to die and live with Jesus, I've been looking for happiness all my life but I can't find it, I feel like my mind is going to explode, please pray for me, I need prayer, what do you recommend?

✍️Answer:- Why does a person choose loneliness? Why does a person hide? In essence, man is not happy without God, because there is no peace without God. Jesus Christ said in the Gospel of John, chapter 14, verse 27, "Peace I leave with you, and my peace I give you, the peace I give you is not as the world gives; do not let your hearts be troubled, do not be afraid."
 
The world kisses us today then bites tomorrow; gives today then takes away tomorrow. But God does not take away what He has given, no matter what, there is no peace without God. What is life? Life is the opposite of death, life is living. Life is God, it is written, "Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life."
 
Therefore, if we believe in the Son, we live with Jesus who is the life. It is Jesus Christ who gave life when human beings could not live according to the commandment, it is Jesus Christ who enlightened the dark world. In fact, this Christmas (birth) season is called the light. And if it is said who is the light: it is Jesus Christ.

This world was dark before God the Son became a man. The world lived in darkness. It is called light because God became a man and enlightened the world by making us members of His body. Many people's lives are in darkness. Darkness is sin, darkness is betrayal, darkness is hatred, darkness is lack of love; On the other hand, light is Jesus Christ, light is life, light is religion, light is peace, light is help, blessing and love. Because it is our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who gave us that, there is no life without Jesus Christ.
 
As the owner himself told us, John Gospel chapter 15 verse 5 said "without me you can do nothing", so without Jesus Christ nothing can be done. How can peace be found without Jesus Christ? How can you live? Absolutely not possible. When Judas betrayed Jesus Christ for 30 dollars he died because he was separated from Jesus Christ who is life. We remember that when the devil was once the archangel, when he forgot God and said, "I am the creator," and then failed and separated from God who is life.

Also, when Adam lived peacefully in paradise for seven years and did what he was told not to do, he lost peace from God who is life, and found it difficult to live. but then we remember that he found peace when he returned to God, when he reconciled with God, so there is no peace without God.
 
Our questioner said that they want to die and live with Jesus Christ. So, those of us who do not have peace on earth, those who have fallen into sin on earth, those who have not tried to repent to find Jesus Christ, how can we find peace if we die? What qualifies us for the kingdom of heaven is the work we have done on earth to live with Jesus Christ and enable us to live in heaven. If we die on earth covered in sin, without repentance, confession, and reconciliation with God, we will not be able to live with Jesus. Therefore, it means that we cannot live with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ before we repent. 

(to be continued)👇

--- id:2365 | date:2024-02-06T04:01:15 ---
An explanation of #depression, the challenge of #loneliness and perfect #peace and #light

(continued part)👆👇

Our dear member told us that their mind is going to explode. It is God who gives us peace of mind. 
The mind wants shelter, it wants peace but the conscience blames it. For example, a person knows that stealing is bad before learning to steal, knows that killing is bad before learning to kill. Our consciousness tells us what is good and bad because that is the way it was created; Man is a creature created to distinguish good from evil, evil from good, and what is useful from what is not. 

Therefore, we must all seek life, and if we are willing to find life, we can repent of our sins and find God; God is near, God is love. "You return and I will return," God is not a cruel father who tells you to stay where you left. What He told us is  those of you who have fallen come back to me, . God is a compassionate and merciful father.
 
First He created us in His image, we humans failed to live, we fell, we were the kings of creation but because of our sin we fell from our glory; He came back in search of us, born of the Holy Virgin Mary as a man. After that, he paid many prices for us, to bring back our exiled ones, he was exiled for us, then He was whipped with 6666 lashes, crucified in the square of Calvary, to bring us back what we lost and even more. He gave us his holy body and his precious blood. Eat my flesh, drink my blood, that he may bring us back with food that we have fallen by eating, there is no greater life than this.

Even after He has conquered death,  He told us that  if you fall into sin, even if you make a mistake, repent and come to Me. Therefore, what is needed to live with God is to persevere in his house until the end, it is necessary to continuously take part of his holy body and his precious blood, the Eucharist. 
 
As we have said so far, life means living with God, and what is needed to live with God is to first repent. Therefore, may God help us all who have fallen into sin to repent, stay in the house until the end of our lives, receive His holy body and his precious blood, and live with God in his house.
 
Praise be to God, the Virgin Mother and the cross.
 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends:- https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:2373 | date:2024-02-10T22:02:30 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #oneness of the #faithful 

The Foundation of Unity in the Blood of Christ

At the very heart of Christian doctrine is the truth that the Church, established by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, was not founded upon the sands of human endeavor but upon the solid rock of divine sacrifice. This Church, consecrated by His most precious blood, stands as a beacon of hope and a house of unity for all who bear the name of Christian. In this sacred context, the Church transcends mere physical structures, encompassing the unity of believers—a community bound not by blood nor by soil, but by the Spirit of Christ Himself.

The Neglected Facets of Unity

It is a lamentable truth, observed with a heavy heart, that many among us have confined their understanding of the Church to its physical manifestations, neglecting the profound dimensions of personal sanctification and communal unity. Such an oversight diminishes the richness of our Christian vocation, for the edifice of faith is built not of stone and mortar, but of living stones, each believer a vital part of the holy structure.

The Exhortations of Saint Ignatius on Unity

Saint Ignatius, a beacon of early Christian wisdom, ardently emphasized the indispensability of unity, teaching us that God's presence is forfeited amidst division and strife. His exhortations remind us that we are to emulate the disciples of Christ, fostering peace and unity, praying for one another, and steadfastly supporting our spiritual leaders in their mission to guide the Church towards unity.

The Restoration of Unity Through Christ's Sacrifice

The incarnation of Christ, His victory over death, and His defeat of Satan, herald the restoration of the primordial unity between God and humanity—a unity fractured by sin but mended by divine love. This monumental act of salvation necessitates our response: to honor Christ in all things, striving for unity in thought and deed, bound together by our shared faith and love.

The Primacy of Love in Christian Unity

The essence of Christian identity is encapsulated in the command to love—unconditionally and selflessly—with one faith and one heart. Saint Polycarp, echoing the teachings of his predecessors, implores us to cherish unity above all, for in unity we find the fullness of God's grace at work in our lives, enabling us to overcome the trials of this world with the strength derived from our shared love in Christ.

The Sanctity of Unity and the Sin of Division

Unity in Christ is the bedrock upon which the Church stands; division, therefore, is anathema to the Body of Christ. Those who foster division not only estrange themselves from the fellowship of believers but also from the kingdom of God. For as Christ suffered to unite us with God, so must we eschew all forms of division, embracing instead the sanctity of unity.

The Call to Communal Worship and the Defeat of Satan

Gathering together in the name of Christ, we weaken the powers of darkness. Our communal worship is a fortress against the wiles of the devil, for in our unity, his schemes are thwarted and his power diminished. This spiritual warfare, as articulated by the Apostle Paul, is not against flesh and blood but against cosmic powers opposed to the Kingdom of God.

The Pursuit of Peace and Divine Will

The highest glory of the Christian life is to pursue peace, a peace that mirrors the peace of Christ which reconciles heaven and earth. In all our endeavors, let our actions be guided by the will of God, fostering unity and harmony in a manner that delights His heart.

Continues 👇

--- id:2374 | date:2024-02-10T22:03:01 ---
(Continues) 👆🏾

Conclusion

To destroy the unity of the Church is to assail the very heart of God's plan for humanity. The punishment for such transgression is severe, for it not only undermines the foundation of our faith but also rejects the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. Let us, therefore, heed the wisdom of our forefathers, embracing the oneness of the faithful with a fervor that befits our calling.

In doing so, we become true disciples of Christ, united in love, faith, and purpose, for the glory of God and the sanctification of the world.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2384 | date:2024-02-12T21:02:34 ---
👉🏾 About our #baptismal #names

Question፦ Hello,

I was wondering if we are supposed to keep our christina name private or anyone can know it. Thank you! 

Sincerely,

Answer ፦ Beloved in Christ,

Your inquiry touches upon a beautiful aspect of our Christian life – the baptismal name, a symbol of our new birth in Christ and entrance into the holy family of the Church. In the tradition of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, as well as in the wider Orthodox Christian world, the baptismal name is given with profound significance. It serves not only as a marker of one's Christian identity but also as a constant reminder of the saint whose name we bear, encouraging us to emulate their virtues and piety.

The sharing of your baptismal name is not a matter of strict confidentiality but rather of personal discretion and spiritual context. It is a name to be lived by, prayed by, and, if led by the Spirit, shared in the context of building up one another in faith. "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father in heaven." (Matthew 5:16) Your baptismal name is part of the light you carry, a testament to your rebirth in Christ and your journey towards Theosis—becoming partakers of the Divine nature (2 Peter 1:4).

Therefore, whether you choose to share your baptismal name openly or keep it as a personal treasure is up to you. What is essential is to live by the meaning and example of the saint or holy figure you are named after, allowing their life in Christ to inspire and guide your own.

As you ponder this, consider how your baptismal name shapes your spiritual journey. How does it inspire you to live a life of faith, hope, and love in the footsteps of Christ and the saints?

In Christ’s love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2385 | date:2024-02-12T21:06:35 ---


--- id:2386 | date:2024-02-12T21:07:21 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Sin and it's #Consequences 

Sin, dear brethren, is not a mere error or a trivial misstep in our daily wanderings. It is, as the apostle Saint Paul solemnly declares, the death of the mind and spirit (Romans 6:23). This death is not of the body but a far more dreadful demise; it is the severance of the sacred bond between the Creator and His creation. To sin is to turn one's back on the Divine, to walk away from the eternal banquet prepared for us in the heavenly kingdom.

The genesis of sin traces back to the very dawn of humanity, to the garden of Eden, where Adam, our forefather, succumbed to the serpent's guile. This original transgression was not merely an act of disobedience but a fundamental rupture in the pristine relationship between man and God. Adam's fall from grace is a testament to the destructive power of sin, which exiles us from our spiritual homeland and casts us into the wilderness of this world, bereft of divine consolation.

The Holy Scriptures are replete with admonitions against the love of this world, for "Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him" (1 John 2:15). This is not a call to disdain the beauty of creation but a warning against the seduction of temporal pleasures that lead us away from our ultimate purpose. The siren song of materialism and worldly desires drowns out the whispering voice of the Spirit, calling us to a higher destiny.

Fellowship with God is the soul's natural abode, and sin is the chasm that separates us from this divine communion. The apostle Paul inquires, "What fellowship has righteousness with lawlessness? And what communion has light with darkness?" (2 Corinthians 6:14). To live in sin is to dwell in the shadows, far from the radiant light of Christ, which alone can illuminate our path to salvation.

The consequences of sin extend beyond the spiritual desolation it engenders. The soul ensnared by sin loses its inner peace; it becomes like a tempest-tossed ship, unable to find harbor. "There is no peace," says the Lord, "for the wicked" (Isaiah 48:22). The anxious and fearful heart is a fertile ground for all manner of vices, which further alienate the soul from the source of all goodness.

Yet, dear brethren, let us not despair. The Scriptures also speak of hope, of the path back to the Father's embrace. The call to repentance is a golden thread woven through the tapestry of biblical revelation. The Lord, in His boundless mercy, stands ready to receive the contrite heart. "But if you do not repent, you will all likewise perish" (Luke 13:3). Repentance is the key that unlocks the door to reconciliation with God, the balm that heals the wounds inflicted by sin.

This call to repentance is not to be taken lightly. The Day of Judgment looms on the horizon, a day of reckoning when the wheat shall be separated from the chaff, and each soul shall receive its due. "And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life" (Matthew 25:46). The imagery of this final judgment is stark and foreboding, a somber reminder of the eternal consequences of our earthly choices.

In conclusion, let us heed the exhortations of our holy fathers and the sacred Scriptures, turning away from sin with all our might. Let us embrace a life of virtue, guided by the Spirit, so that we may find our way back to the Father, from whom all blessings flow. In the words of Saint John Chrysostom, "To prevent sin is the greatest gift of all. Mercy follows after." May we all strive to live in such a way that we may one day hear the Lord say, "Well done, good and faithful servant... Enter into the joy of your master" (Matthew 25:21).

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2391 | date:2024-02-13T21:45:06 ---


--- id:2392 | date:2024-02-13T21:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Tabot

In the hallowed traditions of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, the concept of the Tabot holds a place of profound spiritual significance, echoing the eternal covenant between the Divine and His people. This sacred object, often a consecrated replica or tablet made of wood or stone, represents the Ark of the Covenant itself, a testament to the indwelling presence of God among His faithful. 

The Essence of the Tabot

The Tabot, in its most profound sense, is not merely a physical object but a tangible manifestation of God's glory, an altar upon which the divine presence rests. It is a symbol of the covenant, a bridge between the temporal and the eternal, signifying God's promise to dwell among His people. Just as the Ark of the Covenant was commanded to be built by God and served as the throne of His presence to the Israelites, the Tabot serves a parallel purpose in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, embodying the living God's presence within the sanctuary.

Historical and Theological Foundations

The origins of the Tabot trace back to the ancient scriptural commandments given to Moses on Mount Sinai. Here, God instructed Moses to construct the Ark, a sacred container for the Tablets of Law, symbolizing God's covenant with Israel. This divine command illuminates the Ark's (and by extension, the Tabot's) role as a sacred depository of God's Word and His law, a physical embodiment of His eternal truths and promises.

In the Ethiopian Orthodox tradition, the Tabot is revered with utmost sanctity, mirroring the reverence the Ark received in the Old Testament. Each church houses a Tabot, consecrated and hidden from the public eye, symbolizing the Ark's historical and spiritual journey from Sinai to Zion, reflecting Ethiopia's deep connection to the biblical covenant.

Spiritual Significance and Worship

The worship and veneration of the Tabot are imbued with profound theological meaning. It is not the wood or stone that the faithful revere, but the divine presence it signifies. The Tabot, as the Ark before it, is a focal point of worship, drawing the faithful closer to the mysteries of the divine. In every liturgical celebration, the Tabot becomes the altar upon which the Holy Sacrifice is offered, linking the congregation with the heavenly liturgy and the communion of saints.

This sacred object reminds the faithful of God's promise to be with His people, to guide and protect them. It is a symbol of faith, a call to holiness, and a beacon of hope, signifying the eternal presence of God in His Church and among His people.

The Tabot in the Life of the Church

The presence of the Tabot in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church is a testament to the continuity of divine worship from the Old Covenant to the New. It is a witness to the Incarnation, the ultimate manifestation of God's presence among His people through Jesus Christ. The Tabot, therefore, not only connects the faithful to their ancient heritage but also to the living reality of Christ's sacrifice and resurrection.

In the annual rites and processions, the Tabot is carried with great pomp and reverence, encapsulating the journey of the Ark and symbolizing the movement of God's people towards the heavenly Jerusalem. These processions are not mere rituals but deeply spiritual events that invite reflection on the mystery of salvation and the journey of faith.

Conclusion: The Call to Holiness

The reverence for the Tabot in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church is a call to remembrance, a reminder of God's eternal covenant with humanity, and an invitation to live in accordance with His divine law. It beckons the faithful to a life of holiness, urging them to embody the virtues of the Gospel in their lives.

As we reflect on the significance of the Tabot, let us embrace the call to holiness, to live in the presence of God, and to participate in the divine life through the mysteries of the Church.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:2393 | date:2024-02-13T21:48:01 ---
(Continued) ☝️

May the Tabot inspire us to deeper faith, greater love, and a more profound communion with the Divine, as we journey towards the fulfillment of God's promise of salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2397 | date:2024-02-16T21:15:01 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ What is a #baptismal name?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, grace and peace to you. A baptismal name, in the of Orthodox tradition, is a name given to one during the sacred rite of Baptism. This is not merely a name, but a spiritual seal, a divine whisper calling one into a life of sanctity and devotion. 

This new name is a testament to one's entrance into a life of repentance and a relationship with God, embodying the virtues and the faith of the saint or biblical figure it represents. If named after a saint, It is a call to emulate their holy lives serving as a constant reminder to live in accordance with God's will. 

It connects the baptized soul to a saint, an angel or directly with God Himself.  This name is a guiding star on the journey towards theosis, the process of becoming united with God.

As Saint John Chrysostom, a luminary of our faith, once said, "He gave us the saints as a means to unite all men to Christ." In receiving a baptismal name, one is thus woven into the celestial fellowship of saints, entrusted to their intercessions and inspired by their virtuous lives. This name is a heavenly gift, a reminder that one is called to rise above earthly desires and to embody the virtues of the saint it represents, striving for holiness and a heart aflame with love for God and neighbor.

In the Orthodox Church, this name is used in all spiritual occasions, serving as a constant call to remember one's baptismal vows and to live a life in Christ, marked by repentance, prayer, and the pursuit of sanctity. It signifies the beginning of a transformative journey, a rebirth into the life of the Spirit, where one is called to “put on Christ” (Galatians 3:27) and to walk in newness of life.

Dear soul, were you baptized in the Orthodox Church? If so, how, then, dear soul, will you seek to embody the virtues of your baptismal name, allowing it to guide you closer to Christ and His Church?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2398 | date:2024-02-16T21:17:01 ---


--- id:2399 | date:2024-02-16T21:19:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Peace that  #Christ offers us

The peace that Christ offers is not merely an absence of conflict or a transient state of calm. It is a profound, abiding tranquility that penetrates the soul, a gift of the Holy Spirit who Himself is the bond of peace. This divine peace is a hallmark of the Kingdom of God, a foretaste of the eschatological harmony promised to all who are united in Christ.

Our Lord Jesus Christ, in His farewell discourse to His disciples, proclaimed, "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid" (John 14:27). In this declaration, Christ distinguishes the peace He offers from any worldly peace. It is a peace that transcends understanding, rooted not in the circumstances of life but in the very presence of God within the soul.

The Apostle Paul, reflecting on the nature of this peace, exhorts the faithful, "Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus" (Philippians 4:6-7). Here, Paul outlines the path to peace: it is through prayer, through turning our hearts to God in every circumstance, that we are enveloped in divine peace.

This peace is not passive; it is active and dynamic. It involves a steadfast trust in God's providence and a firm foundation upon the rock of faith. Just as Christ admonished His disciples in the midst of the storm, so too does He call us to faith in the face of life's tempests. Our peace is not dependent on the stillness of the sea but on the assurance that Christ is with us, that He is our peace.

The lives of the saints, those luminaries of the Church, exemplify this peace in a world fraught with turmoil. Consider Saint Anthony the Great, whose serene countenance was a testament to the peace dwelling within his heart. Athanasius of Alexandria, in his Life of Antony, portrays the desert father as a beacon of peace, whose very presence dispelled the tumult of the soul. This is the peace that radiates from a life lived in Christ, a peace that is both a personal refuge and a light to the world.

The peace of Christ is integral to the life of the Church, the Body of Christ on earth. In every liturgy, we pray for the peace of the Church, recognizing that the unity and harmony of the Body of Christ is the manifestation of Christ's peace in the world. This ecclesial peace is not a mere ideal but a lived reality, cultivated through prayer, reconciliation, and the pursuit of holiness.

As we navigate the vicissitudes of life, let us cling to this peace that Christ offers. Let it be the anchor of our souls and the guiding light of our journey. May our prayer always be for the peace of the Church, for the spread of this divine peace throughout the world, that all may come to know the love and tranquility that is found only in Christ.

In the spirit of John Chrysostom, let us not forget that the peace of God is both a gift and a task. It is given freely by Christ, yet it calls us to transformation, to a life that reflects the peace we have received. Let us, therefore, be peacemakers, bearers of the peace of Christ, that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2405 | date:2024-02-19T22:31:36 ---


--- id:2410 | date:2024-02-19T22:34:31 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Words of #Wisdom on different spiritual topics. 

On the Temptation of Gluttony and Desire

Reflecting upon the imagery of a lion ensnared by its own hunger, we are reminded of the perils that accompany the pursuit of earthly desires. Saint Paul warns us in his first epistle to Timothy (6:10) about the root of all kinds of evils stemming from the love of money, which can be extended to all forms of carnal desires. This lesson implores us to exercise self-control and vigilance, for even the mightiest can fall if led by unbridled desires. It is a call to monastics and laypeople alike to prioritize spiritual nourishment over temporal satisfaction, thereby preserving the dignity of their calling and the integrity of their spiritual journey.

The Virtue of Humility and Its Earthly Reflection

Father Pemen's comparison of the earth to humility offers a profound insight into the nature of true humility. Just as the earth, lowly and trodden upon, sustains and supports life, so does humility underpin the spiritual life. It is in lowering ourselves that we are exalted by God, embodying the paradox Christ taught in the Gospels. This humility enables us to stand firm in the face of sin and adversity, assured of our place at the right hand of Christ if we but humble ourselves. Therefore, humility is not weakness but strength, not defeat but victory, providing the foundation upon which we build our relationship with God and our neighbors.

Embracing Joy and Sorrow with Compassion

The call to rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep, as the Apostle Paul instructs in Romans 12:15, is a testament to the Christian virtue of empathy. It challenges us to align our hearts with those around us, sharing in their triumphs and trials as if they were our own. This unity of heart reflects the love of Christ, who took upon Himself our joys and sorrows, teaching us to bear one another's burdens. In doing so, we embody the love of God, extending His grace and compassion to all.

The Sacred Bond of Friendship in Christ

Saint Ephraim's teachings on friendship highlight the divine aspect of love that transcends mere emotional attachment. True Christian friendship is marked by forgiveness, selflessness, and a shared commitment to spiritual growth. It is a relationship that mirrors the love of Christ, sacrificial and pure, seeking the highest good of the other. In this holy fellowship, we find a foretaste of the communion of saints, encouraging one another towards virtue and away from vice, towards the eternal love of God.

The Mystery and Power of Prayer

The question about the essence of prayer invites us into the mystery of communion with God. Prayer is not merely about the words spoken but the heart from which they spring. It is in the earnest offering of our hearts to God, in vulnerability and faith, that we encounter His transformative power. Through persistent prayer, we open ourselves to the grace of God, which heals, strengthens, and sanctifies us, making known to us the depth of His love and the truth of His Word.

Humility of Heart: The Gateway to Salvation

Saint Basil's reflection on the humility of the heart as the means of salvation echoes the beatitudes taught by Christ. This humility is a recognition of our utter dependence on God, a willingness to put aside all pride and self-reliance, acknowledging that every good thing comes from the Lord. It is through this humility that we find true freedom and peace, for it aligns us with the reality of our condition as creatures in need of a Creator, opening the way to a deeper experience of God's mercy and love.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:2411 | date:2024-02-19T22:34:42 ---
(Continued) ☝️

The Redemptive Value of Suffering

Saint John the Baptist's perspective on suffering as a form of divine counsel reminds us of the redemptive potential of our trials. In the mystery of God's providence, suffering can serve to purify us, stripping away the attachments and illusions that keep us from God. It invites us to trust more deeply in His goodness, to offer up our pain in union with the sufferings of Christ, and to find in our trials a path to closer communion with God and a preparation for eternal joy.

The True Nature of Monastic Life

Saint Bersnios's insight into monastic life underscores the universal call to holiness that transcends mere outward appearances or titles. It is a stark reminder that the essence of Christian life, monastic or otherwise, is found in the faithful execution of God's will. True holiness is measured not by our external circumstances but by our obedience to God, our love for Him, and our service to others. In this light, every Christian is called to a 'monasticism of the heart,' a dedicated pursuit of God above all else.

In these lessons, we find a rich tapestry of wisdom that calls us to a deeper, more authentic Christian life. They invite us to reflect on our own spiritual journey, challenging us to grow in virtue, humility, and love. May we, inspired by the saints and guided by the Holy Spirit, strive to live out these teachings, transforming our lives and the world around us with the light of Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2413 | date:2024-02-21T21:52:19 ---


--- id:2414 | date:2024-02-21T21:53:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Biblical constructs that symbolize our Lady the Virgin #Mary

1. The Virgin Earth: Genesis 1:9-13

In the pristine act of Creation, the virgin earth, untouched by human toil, brings forth vegetation through the divine logos—Word of God. This mirrors the immaculate conception of Christ in the womb of the Virgin Mary. Just as the earth yielded fruit by the word of God, so too did Mary, without the seed of man, conceive the Word made flesh. This symbol teaches us about the power of divine initiation and the purity of God's chosen vessel, Mary, through whom salvation was to enter the world.

2. Noah's Ark: Genesis 7:1-24

The Ark, a refuge from the deluge, prefigures Mary as the Ark of the New Covenant. Within her womb, she bore our Savior, just as the ark bore Noah's family and the seeds of a new creation. The ark's preservation amidst the waters of judgment speaks to Mary's role in the divine plan of salvation, offering protection and a new beginning to humanity through Christ. This imagery invites us to seek refuge and salvation through the intercessions of the Theotokos.

3. The Rainbow Covenant: Genesis 9:13-17

Following the flood, God set a rainbow as a sign of His covenant with humanity, a promise of mercy and never again to destroy the earth by flood. Mary is likened to this rainbow, a symbol of hope and the covenant of grace through her son, Jesus Christ. In her, the promise of salvation becomes as vivid and real as the colors of the rainbow against the sky, reminding us of God's mercy and faithfulness.

4. The Offering of Isaac: Genesis 22:9-13

In the binding of Isaac, we find a profound typology of Christ's sacrifice. Abraham's willingness to offer his son parallels God the Father's offering of His only Son for the world's salvation. Mary is symbolized by the thicket that caught the ram, providing the substitute for Isaac. She is the thicket that bore the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. Through this event, we glimpse the depth of divine love and the pivotal role of Mary in the economy of salvation.

5. The Burning Bush: Exodus 3:2-3

St. Ephraim sees in the burning bush, which burned with fire yet was not consumed, a prefiguration of the Virgin Mary. She bore the divine fire of the Holy Spirit in conceiving Jesus, yet her virginity remained intact, unscathed by the divine presence. This miracle reveals the holiness of Mary, chosen to bear God in the flesh, and invites us to marvel at the mystery of the Incarnation.

6. Jacob's Ladder: Genesis 28:10-12

Jacob's vision of a ladder reaching from earth to heaven, with angels ascending and descending, symbolizes Mary as the bridge between God and humanity. Through her, heaven touched earth, as she bore the Eternal Word. This image encourages us to see in Mary a pathway to divine encounter, inviting us to ascend to God through prayer and piety, with her as our guide and intercessor.

7. Gideon's Fleece: Judges 6:36-40

The miracle of the dew falling only on Gideon's fleece, while the ground around remained dry, prefigures Mary's virginity and divine selection. Just as the fleece alone was made wet, signifying God's choice, Mary alone was chosen among women to be the mother of God, conceived by the Holy Spirit without human intervention. This symbol teaches us about God's sovereign will and the sanctity of His choices.

Conclusion

These biblical constructs, embodying Our Lady, the Virgin Mary, reveal the depth of God's plan for salvation and the exalted role of the Theotokos in this divine mystery. Through her, we see the fulfillment of the Old Testament types and shadows, and we are invited into a deeper relationship with God. Let us, therefore, honor her with the reverence befitting the Mother of God, seeking her intercession and striving to emulate her obedience, purity, and humility. In doing so, we draw nearer to her Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

--- id:2415 | date:2024-02-21T21:55:01 ---
May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2418 | date:2024-02-23T21:00:01 ---
👉🏾 Clarification of a #Bible verse

👉 Question፦ Hello, I was wondering why we are not allowed to eat #pork anything related to it. Like I’m reading acts right now and it says 
”“The voice spoke from heaven a second time, ‘Do not call anything impure that God has made clean.’“
Acts 11:9

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

The passage you refer to in Acts 11:9 is a profound testament to the transformative power of Christ's coming and the new covenant established through His sacrifice. In the Old Testament, certain foods, including pork, were considered impure or unclean for the Israelites, as part of the Mosaic Law given to guide them and set them apart from other nations. These laws were not just about diet but were deeply intertwined with spiritual and communal holiness.

The vision Peter received, as narrated in Acts 11, symbolizes the inclusion of the Gentiles into the Christian faith and signifies that what God has cleansed through Christ's sacrifice, no one should call unclean. This marks a pivotal shift from the ceremonial laws of the Old Testament to the spiritual and moral laws of the New Testament, emphasizing faith in Christ and love as the fulfillment of the law.

In the Orthodox tradition, emphasis is placed not on the adherence to the Old Testament dietary laws but on the spiritual practice of fasting and abstention, which serves as a tool for spiritual discipline, self-control, and communion with God. It is not the avoidance of specific foods like pork that purifies us, but our repentance, prayer, and the grace of the Holy Spirit working within us.

As Saint Paul teaches, “Therefore, if what I eat causes my brother or sister to fall into sin, I will never eat meat again, so that I will not cause them to fall.” (1 Corinthians 8:13) This reflects the Orthodox Christian understanding that our actions, including our dietary choices, should be guided by love, consideration for others, and the pursuit of spiritual growth.

In the Ethiopian Orthodox tradition, the abstention from pork is upheld, not merely as a continuation of the Old Testament dietary law, but as a part of our broader commitment to holiness and theosis - the process of becoming more like God in our thoughts, deeds, and life. Our Church Fathers, deeply rooted in the Judeo-Christian tradition and understanding the dietary habits and spiritual needs of our people, guided us towards practices that enhance our spiritual journey towards God.

How might you incorporate the principle of love and consideration for others in your daily life, reflecting the transformative love of Christ? 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2421 | date:2024-02-25T20:31:11 ---
👉🏾 Clarification of a #Bible verse
 
👉 Question፦ Okay,Thank you …
I also have another question.It says in Acts  summarized Ananias died and also his wife after lying to  God but than later on as we read more of Acts it’s says God came to Ananias to go heal Saul or Paul of his blindness but Ananias is dead ???

when Ananias died  Acts 5 and when God came to Ananias in a dream Act 9.

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Your question touches upon an important aspect of scripture that, when understood, illuminates the continuity and depth of God's plan through the Acts of the Apostles. In the Book of Acts, we encounter two distinct individuals named Ananias, which may lead to confusion without careful reading.

The first Ananias we meet, alongside his wife Sapphira, is indeed the one who, having lied to the Holy Spirit about the proceeds from a sale of property, faced immediate death as a consequence of his actions (Acts 5:1-10). This event serves as a stern warning about the severity of deceit in the heart, especially in matters concerning the Holy Spirit. As it is written, "Be sure your sin will find you out" (Numbers 32:23).

The second Ananias, whom we encounter later in Acts, is a devout man in Damascus, known for his adherence to the Law and respected by all Jews in that region (Acts 22:12). It is this Ananias whom God calls to heal Saul (who becomes Paul) of his blindness, following Saul's dramatic encounter with Christ on the road to Damascus (Acts 9:10-18). This Ananias is an example of faithful obedience and courage, stepping into a situation that could have been perilous, given Saul's reputation at the time.

Thus, the confusion arises not from inconsistency in the narrative, but from the presence of two individuals sharing the same name, a common occurrence in scriptures and historical texts.

The lesson we draw from the Ananias in Damascus is profound: God calls us, often out of our comfort zone, to participate in His divine plan, to be instruments of His grace and healing. It is a reminder of the transformation that comes from encountering Christ, not just for the one receiving sight, but for the one through whom sight is given.

As you reflect upon this, consider how God might be calling you to act in faith, perhaps in ways that challenge you, to be an agent of His grace in the lives of others. What is the next step in your journey with Christ to bring light where there is darkness?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2428 | date:2024-02-28T01:30:52 ---


--- id:2429 | date:2024-02-28T01:33:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Mercy of #Nineveh: A Call to Repentance for the Faithful

Dear brethren in Christ, in the sacred season before the penitential journey of Great Lent, the Holy Church calls us to a profound three-day fast, a commemoration of the great mercy unveiled at Nineveh. Just as the prophet Jonah emerged from the belly of the whale, so too may we arise from the depths of sin through this fast, embracing repentance and God's boundless forgiveness.

Let us unveil the profound mysteries and lessons hidden within the story of Nineveh, a city once teetering on the brink of destruction. Like Nineveh, we too harbor sins that, if left unchecked, could render us deserving of God's wrath. The Ninevites were a people who had strayed far from righteousness, yet even they found salvation. If mercy was extended to them, beloved, how much more shall our loving God extend His mercy to us?

The Disobedient Prophet and the Wisdom of God

Jonah, son of Amittai, was charged by God to proclaim a message of destruction to the people of Nineveh. He, in the foolishness of human pride, refused. He dared to outrun God's command, fleeing across the sea and attempting to hide within the depths of a ship. Like Jonah, we too are prone to disobedience, preferring our own flawed judgments over the divine wisdom that guides us.

Let us remember, Christ's followers, that defiance of God's purpose leads to turmoil. For Jonah, it was the storm-tossed sea and the belly of a great fish. For us, it can manifest in a troubled spirit and alienation from God's grace.

Yet, the Lord is patient. He did not forsake Jonah but used his very disobedience as a means to teach. Through the tempest at sea, through the prayers of pagan sailors, and finally through the confinement within the whale, God humbled Jonah and led him back to the path he was destined to walk.

We too, my brethren, are not beyond God's patient correction. In our afflictions, in the frustrations and failures we meet, may we recognize His guiding hand, turning us back towards repentance and obedience.

Nineveh Repents: A Model for Us All

At last, Jonah reached the city of Nineveh. His message was simple and stark: "Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown." And what was the response of those sinful people? Did they mock the prophet or ignore his words? No, beloved, they turned to God with remarkable humility. From the king to the lowliest citizen, all put on sackcloth and ashes. They cried out with a unified voice, repenting of their wickedness. Not only did they fast, but they also turned away from their unrighteous ways. And God, who is ever-merciful, saw their genuine repentance and spared them from the impending destruction.

Ah, beloved, the people of Nineveh set an inspiring example! They teach us that no depth of sin is beyond redemption. We see that fasting, when combined with true repentance, becomes a powerful tool of transformation. Our sins may be heavy, but God's love and forgiveness are heavier still.

Lessons of the Nineveh Fast

The Fast of Nineveh is not a mere ritualistic observance. It is a summons to spiritual renewal and a mirror to our own souls. Through this fast, we must:

Acknowledge our sinfulness: Let us not clothe ourselves in self-righteousness, for we all are prone to falling short. We must confess our transgressions before God, seeking His forgiveness with a sincere and contrite heart.

Amend our ways: Repentance is not simply sorrow but action. Just as the Ninevites changed their conduct, we too should strive to turn away from sinful patterns and seek a life marked by virtue.

Seek God's mercy: Fasting and prayer weaken the grip of worldly passions upon us. They help us to draw closer to God, seeking His unending mercy and grace.

May the Fast of Nineveh ignite within us a fervent desire to become better versions of ourselves. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

© John's Repentance
 https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2432 | date:2024-02-28T23:00:01 ---
👉🏾 About #free_will, #good_will and #angels

👉 Question፦ My friend asked me this question that he said no one was able to answer for him. He was wondering if angels have a perfect will, how is it that lucifer was able to rebel against God?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, thank you for reaching out with such a profound and thoughtful question that probes into the mystery of divine creation and free will.

In the wisdom of the Church, we understand that God, in His infinite goodness and love, created all beings with freedom, including the angels. This freedom reflects God's own freedom and is essential for love, for without freedom, there can be no true love. While angels are spiritual and holy beings, they were created with free will, not as automatons, but as beings capable of choice.

Lucifer, originally an angel of light, was endowed with this same free will and chose to turn away from God, driven by pride and a desire to be independent of his Creator. This mystery of iniquity is rooted in the misuse of the free will granted by God. Just as humans, angels were created good but had the potential to choose otherwise. Lucifer's choice was not a reflection of imperfection in God's creation but an exercise of the very freedom that is a prerequisite for the capacity to love and be in communion.

As we reflect on this, let us remember the words of the Holy Scripture: "Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour" (1 Peter 5:8). This reminds us that our spiritual journey is one of constant vigilance and prayer, seeking to align our will with God's will.

Now, dear one, as you ponder this mystery, how might you deepen your own commitment to align your will with the loving and perfect will of God?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2433 | date:2024-02-28T23:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #confession and #repentance 

👉 Question፦ How often are we supposed to confess? I always assumed we must confess to a priest the day before we take the Eucharist every single time. But I heard from a great Coptic priest that the recommended amount is at least 4x a year while focusing on personal repentance daily.

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Your question touches the very core of our journey toward salvation, one that is paved with humility and repentance. In the life of the Orthodox Church, confession is not merely a ritual but a profound encounter with Christ's mercy and forgiveness. It is essential to understand that the frequency of confession, while guided by the Church's wisdom, also depends on one's personal spiritual needs and struggles.

As the great Saint John Chrysostom teaches, "Repentance is the renewal of baptism. Repentance is a contract with God for a second life." This profound insight illuminates the significance of confession in our lives. It is indeed a means to renew ourselves in God's grace continuously.

While the Coptic tradition wisely advises confessing at least four times a year, this is a guideline, not a strict rule. The key is to approach confession with a heart earnestly seeking transformation, not just as a formality before receiving the Eucharist. Daily personal repentance is vital, as it cultivates a contrite heart and a conscious awareness of God's presence in every moment of our lives.

Therefore, engage in frequent confession with a sincere desire to grow closer to God, allowing the grace of the Holy Spirit to guide you in this sacramental life. The frequency can indeed vary; some may find it beneficial to confess more often, especially before each partaking of the Holy Eucharist, to prepare their hearts and souls to receive Christ fully.

Now, dear soul, as you reflect on this, how might you incorporate a more profound understanding and practice of confession into your spiritual journey, bringing you closer to the embrace of our Lord?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2437 | date:2024-03-01T23:51:18 ---
👉🏾 About our approach to #Faith 

👉 Question፦ Thank you! If I may ask one more question, I want to know if Christianity is true instead of just believing it because my parents were Orthodox. However, im worried as I try to study the proof for Christianity and studying other religions, I may face times of doubt and confusion. Especially if unbelievers ask me questions that I don't know the answer too. During those time, does that mean I'm not a faithful Christian since I am experiencing time of uncertainty of whether Christianity is true? Would I be forbidden from the Eucharist or the Orthodox life since I don't yet believe everything wholeheartedly to be true? Or is it that uncertainty is part of the journey, and I would only be forbidden if I believed with conviction that they were false?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Your inquiry is a beacon of earnest seeking, and it is with great joy that I address your heartfelt concerns. The path to understanding and embracing the Christian faith, especially within the profound depths of Orthodoxy, is indeed a journey—one marked by questions, learning, and growth.

To address your concerns, I wish to remind you of the words of the Apostle Paul, who said, "Test everything; hold fast what is good" (1 Thessalonians 5:21). The endeavor to understand your faith more deeply and to seek answers is not a sign of weak faith but rather an indication of your desire to grow in the truth that the Lord has revealed. Questioning and seeking are not only natural but necessary for the maturation of your faith.

The Church Fathers, too, understood the importance of engaging with and understanding one's faith. A revered father encouraged catechumens to "not believe blindly but with justification." Therefore, encountering doubts or questions does not alienate you from the Church or the sacraments; rather, it is a part of your spiritual evolution. The Orthodox Church does not demand blind faith but an informed, living faith that grows and strengthens through experience, questioning, and seeking.

In moments of doubt or confusion, it is crucial to remain anchored in prayer, the sacraments, and the community of the Church. Engaging with a spiritual father and participating in the life of the Church can provide guidance, clarity, and the grace of God to navigate these challenges. The Church is a hospital for the soul, where we are all in the process of healing and growing toward the likeness of Christ.

Remember, faith is a relationship, and like all relationships, it goes through seasons of certainty and doubt. What is essential is your commitment to continue seeking, knocking, and asking with a sincere heart. God honors the earnest seeker and reveals Himself to those who earnestly seek Him with humility and perseverance.

As you continue this journey, ask yourself: What steps can I take today to deepen my understanding and experience of the Orthodox faith? How can I engage more fully in the life of the Church to find the answers and peace I seek?

In Christ's love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2439 | date:2024-03-01T23:55:02 ---


--- id:2440 | date:2024-03-01T23:55:02 ---


--- id:2441 | date:2024-03-01T23:55:02 ---


--- id:2442 | date:2024-03-01T23:55:02 ---


--- id:2443 | date:2024-03-01T23:55:02 ---


--- id:2444 | date:2024-03-01T23:55:02 ---


--- id:2445 | date:2024-03-01T23:55:02 ---


--- id:2448 | date:2024-03-02T08:12:00 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the victory of #Adwa (128th celebration)

In an era where the shadows of colonization loomed large over Africa, a beacon of resistance and autonomy shone brightly from the heart of Ethiopia. This beacon was none other than Emperor Menelik II, a sovereign whose reign became synonymous with the celebrated Victory of Adwa, an event that not only marked a significant chapter in Ethiopian history but also served as a testament to the indomitable spirit of an entire continent.

The Victory of Adwa, achieved on the 1st of March 1896, was not merely a military triumph; it was a monumental assertion of national identity, sovereignty, and the intrinsic right to self-determination. At a time when African territories were being partitioned as trophies amongst European powers, Ethiopia stood firm, a solitary sentinel against the encroaching tide of imperialism.

Under the astute leadership of Menelik II, Ethiopia demonstrated that unity in diversity could be a formidable force. His ability to amalgamate the various ethnicities and principalities under a singular Ethiopian identity was pivotal. He fostered a sense of national pride and cohesion, which was instrumental in galvanizing the populace against external aggressions. It was this unity that fortified Ethiopia's resistance against the Italian incursion, culminating in the historic victory at Adwa.

Menelik II's strategies extended beyond the battlefield. His governance was characterized by inclusivity and foresight. He was not a ruler who secluded himself in the echelons of power but was a visionary who recognized the importance of integrating various facets of his kingdom. From the appointment of administrators based on merit and popular approval to the judicious allocation of land, his policies were underpinned by a profound respect for justice and equity.

Furthermore, Menelik II's tenure was marked by significant advancements in modernization while retaining the cultural ethos of Ethiopia. He understood that progress was not about the blind imitation of foreign models but about adopting innovations that complemented and enhanced the traditional frameworks. From the introduction of modern infrastructure and technologies to the establishment of educational institutions, his reforms were both progressive and pragmatic.

The Victory of Adwa, under Menelik's leadership, transcended its immediate military implications. It became a symbol of hope and a source of inspiration for oppressed populations worldwide. It demonstrated that colonial subjugation was not an inevitability but could be countered and overcome with unity, strategy, and resilience.

As we reflect upon the Victory of Adwa, it serves as a clarion call to remember the sacrifices made by those who fought valiantly for their homeland. It is a reminder that the spirit of independence and self-determination is intrinsic to human dignity. Menelik II's legacy is not merely etched in the annals of Ethiopian history but resonates as a perpetual echo of freedom and resistance against tyranny.

In conclusion, the Victory of Adwa under Emperor Menelik II's leadership is not just a testament to military acumen but a beacon of national pride, unity, and resilience. It underscores the profound truth that when a nation stands united in defense of its sovereignty and values, it can withstand the mightiest of adversaries. As we commemorate this historic victory, let us carry forward its enduring legacy, cherishing our heritage while forging ahead with the unyielding spirit and determination that it epitomizes.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2452 | date:2024-03-03T20:42:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Intersection 

👉 Question፦ Hello,I want thank you for answering my questions for the past few weeks.Any ways  I have another question.

I was wondering why we pray to Mary.I understand that it is because so she could pray  for us and tell Jesus about us but isn’t Mary just like us  a human who is saved by God’s Grace? and how can she Hear our prayers?

Answer፦ Blessings to you, beloved child of God, for seeking to deepen your understanding of our Holy Tradition. Your question about the veneration of the Theotokos, the Blessed Virgin Mary, is one that illuminates the beauty and depth of Orthodox spirituality.

Indeed, Mary is human, like us, and it is through God's grace that she was chosen and sanctified. However, she holds a unique and exalted position in Christianity, especially within Orthodoxy, as the one who bore God Incarnate in her womb. In Luke 1:28, the Archangel Gabriel greets her with, "Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you; blessed are you among women!" This signifies her special role and the honor God bestowed upon her.

We pray to Mary, asking for her intercession, not as a deity, for she is not God, but as the most honored among the saints, who has a special closeness to her Son. In the Orthodox tradition, we believe that the saints live in Christ and are made alive by Him, transcending death (John 11:25-26). Because they are with Christ, they can hear our requests for intercession.

In praying to Mary, we recognize her as a powerful intercessor before her Son, Jesus Christ. Just as she interceded at the wedding at Cana, we trust she presents our prayers to God with maternal care and love. This practice is not about elevating her to divine status but about honoring her unique role in salvation history and her relationship with Christ.

In the journey of faith, embracing the intercessions of the Theotokos is a way to deepen our connection with the family of believers, spanning heaven and earth. As you continue to explore the beauty of Orthodoxy, consider how the veneration of Mary can enrich your spiritual life, drawing you closer to her Son.

What steps will you take to deepen your understanding and relationship with the Theotokos, and through her, with our Lord Jesus Christ?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2453 | date:2024-03-03T20:45:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Prayer

👉 Question፦ When we pray to ask God for something. Are we supposed to pray about it once and understand he knows what we are asking for and stop there. Or do we keep praying about it continuously? I know that people do subye and dedicate a certain time period where they pray about something. After that, are they supposed to keep praying about the same thing untill they get what they prayed for / understand Gods will about what they prayed about —-  or are we supposed  to stop after praying about it once / a certain period, knowing that we have already communicated it to God and instead focus on other prayers like praising God and etc? 

Thank you🙏🏾

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Your query touches the heart of a profound spiritual practice: persistence in prayer. The Holy Scriptures and the teachings of our Church Fathers illuminate this path with clarity and depth.

Consider the words of our Lord Jesus Christ: "And I tell you, ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you" (Luke 11:9). Here, Christ encourages not a single act of asking but a continuous, persistent knocking. The verb forms in the original Greek text imply ongoing action—keep on asking, keep on seeking, keep on knocking.

In the Orthodox tradition, persistence in prayer is not a vain repetition nor a simple reiteration of our desires. It is a deepening dialogue with God, a means through which we align our will with His and immerse ourselves in His divine presence. Saint John Chrysostom, a beacon of our faith, elucidates this by teaching that prayer is the light of the soul, the true knowledge of God and of oneself.

When we dedicate a period to pray specifically for something, like in the practice of Subye, we are not merely informing God of our needs—as He is omniscient—but rather, we are shaping our own hearts, learning to trust in His timing, and deepening our communion with Him. After such a period, it is not that we should cease to pray for that matter, but we should maintain a balance: while continuing to place our trust and request before God, we should also cultivate a heart of gratitude, praise, and worship for His eternal goodness.

Therefore, while you persist in your petition, let your prayer life also blossom in thanksgiving and adoration, for every moment is an opportunity to encounter God anew. As you journey through this balanced path of prayer, ask yourself: How is my relationship with God deepened through both my petitions and my praise?

In Christ's love,

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2456 | date:2024-03-04T22:30:57 ---
👉🏾 About #Intercession 

Question፦ Hello again , John 11:25-26  says “Those who believe in me, even though they die, will live, and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die. “ isn’t this referencing us as we were once dead but  now we are  alive in Christ?

Also
How can abiding/beleving in Christ have anything to do with intercession? As our God is pretty straightforward when it comes to what he wants and says as he gave us the commandments and ex. Telling Jonah to go to Nineveh.And can intercession help in getting mercy because it says in Hebrew 4:15(‘Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need’).

The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit.Grace be with you all.Amen

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Your inquiry touches the heart of our faith, the resurrection and life in Jesus Christ, and the mystery of intercession, which are profound yet comforting doctrines of our Holy Church.

Indeed, when our Lord Jesus Christ proclaims, "Those who believe in me, even though they die, will live, and everyone who lives and believes in me will never die" (John 11:25-26), He speaks of a spiritual resurrection that precedes the physical one. This spiritual resurrection is our passage from death, the death brought by sin, to life, the eternal communion with God. By believing in Christ, we participate now in this new life, being reborn in spirit, which is a foretaste of the resurrection to come.

Intercession, beloved, is deeply rooted in our relationship with Christ and our communion with the saints. It reflects the unity of the Body of Christ, the Church, where the life and holiness of one member benefits all, and where we are called to bear one another's burdens (Galatians 6:2). In the Orthodox tradition, intercession acknowledges that we are not isolated individuals before God but are part of a holy fellowship, the living and the departed, who are united in Christ.

Our intercession for others and the saints' intercession for us do not negate the direct relationship each person is called to have with God. Rather, they express and deepen this relationship, reflecting the unity and love that should characterize the entire body of believers. As Saint Paul teaches us, we are to pray for one another that we may be healed (James 5:16), indicating that our prayers contribute to the spiritual well-being and salvation of others.

When we approach God with confidence, as advised in Hebrews 4:15, we do so not only on our own behalf but also bringing before Him the needs and sorrows of our brothers and sisters, trusting in His mercy and grace. This act of drawing near to God is both personal and communal, inviting His presence into our lives and our world.

As we reflect on these truths, may we ask ourselves how we are embodying this new life in Christ and participating in the communion of saints through prayer and intercession. Are we willing to deepen our faith by living in accordance with the commandments and actively participating in the life of the Church, thereby drawing nearer to the throne of grace?

May the peace of Christ guide you in your spiritual journey. What will be your next step to live more fully in the resurrected life that Christ offers?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2457 | date:2024-03-04T22:33:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Faith 

👉 Question፦ Thanks for answering my previous question.

What does faith look like practically while we wait for the things we pray for? Things like jobs, exams, graduate school and overall success in life. How does one approach these things patiently while having strong faith in God and maintaining a positive mindset.

So in summary,

* What should the mindset of someone who has faith be like? Is faith just a mindset of or it also an action? And if so, what actions do faithful people take?

Answer፦ The practical embodiment of faith, especially in seasons of waiting and anticipation, is a vivid tapestry woven with threads of trust, patience, and active engagement in the life Christ has called us to.

To envisage faith practically, consider the words of St. James the Just, "Faith without works is dead" (James 2:26). This profound truth elucidates that faith, while deeply internal, is also vibrantly external, manifesting through our deeds, our patience, and our steadfastness. Faith is not merely an abstract sentiment or hopeful mindset; it is a dynamic force, compelling us towards love, good works, and unwavering trust in God's providence.

In times of waiting—for a job, for academic success, for any of life's myriad milestones—let your faith be active. Pray unceasingly, as St. Paul exhorts, but also engage with the world as a beacon of Christ's love. Study diligently, prepare thoroughly for your endeavors, and serve others selflessly, embodying the faith you cherish.

Moreover, recall the patience of Job, the perseverance of Abraham, the unwavering trust of the Theotokos. They did not passively await God's promises but lived each day in vibrant faith, anchoring their souls in hope, even amidst trials.

In embracing this active faith, cultivate a mindset of gratitude and trust, recognizing each day as a gift and each challenge as an opportunity to witness the steadfastness of your faith. Such a mindset transcends mere optimism, anchoring you in the profound truth of God's unchanging love and promises.

Now, dear one, as you contemplate your journey, ask yourself: How can I embody my faith today, not just as an internal conviction but as a visible, tangible expression of trust in God's plan for me?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2459 | date:2024-03-06T20:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Profound Essence and Paramount Value of #Peace

Beloved brethren, today we delve deeply into the essence and paramount importance of peace, a virtue so exalted that it mirrors the Heavenly Kingdom's own tranquility, thereby fostering an abode of serenity within our mortal realm.

The Divine Origin and Earthly Manifestation of Peace

Peace, dear brethren, is not merely an absence of conflict or discord; it is a profound state of spiritual harmony bestowed upon us by the Almighty, an ineffable gift that permeates our very being, anchoring our souls amidst the tumultuous seas of earthly existence.

The Trifold Dimension of Peace:

1. Peace with the Divine: Our first and foremost pursuit should be to establish and maintain peace with God. This sacred communion, realized through prayer, repentance, and the grace of the Holy Sacraments, transforms us, enabling us to reflect the divine peace that surpasses all understanding.

2. Peace with Our Brethren: As children of the same Heavenly Father, it is incumbent upon us to foster peace among ourselves, embodying the Lord's commandment to love our neighbors. This peace extends beyond mere tolerance, urging us to embrace forgiveness, understanding, and unconditional love.

3. Inner Peace: The inner sanctum of our hearts must be consecrated with peace, for without this inner tranquility, we are akin to ships without rudders, tossed by the capricious winds of passion and desire. True inner peace is achieved through self-examination, contemplation, and the nurturing of virtues.

The Indispensable Role of Peace in Our Lives

Without peace, the fabric of our families and societies unravels, giving way to strife and chaos. Peace is the cornerstone upon which the edifice of human civilization is built; it is the harbinger of prosperity, the wellspring of creativity, and the conduit for divine grace.

The Scriptural Illumination of Peace:

Our Lord Jesus Christ, the Prince of Peace, bequeathed this invaluable gift to His disciples, proclaiming, "Peace I leave with you; my peace I give to you" (John 14:27). This celestial peace, heralded by the angels at Christ's nativity, is our inheritance and our mission.

In the liturgy, we are repeatedly reminded of this peace, exhorted to share it with one another, thereby weaving an unbreakable bond of communal harmony. The apostolic greetings and exhortations underscore the primacy of peace, echoing through the ages in the epistles and teachings of the Church Fathers.

The Path to Cultivating and Propagating Peace

To be artisans of peace, we must first cultivate it within ourselves, nurturing it through prayer, meditation, and adherence to the divine precepts. As bearers of peace, we are called to diffuse its fragrance in every sphere of our lives, reconciling with those estranged, comforting the afflicted, and standing as beacons of light in a world often shrouded in darkness.

The Reconciliation Imperative:

In moments of conflict or disagreement, our paramount duty is to seek reconciliation, following the Lord's command to make peace with our brethren before approaching the sacred altar. This pursuit of peace must extend to all aspects of our existence, becoming the very air we breathe and the ethos that defines us.

Conclusion: Embracing the Divine Mandate of Peace

In conclusion, dear brethren, let us ardently strive to embody the peace of Christ, which is both our sacred legacy and our divine mandate. In a world fraught with turmoil and strife, let us be the harbingers of peace, radiating its divine light and sowing its seeds in the hearts of all we encounter.

Thus, fortified by divine grace and guided by the luminous examples of the saints and martyrs, let us advance on our earthly pilgrimage with steadfast hearts, resolute in our quest for peace, ever mindful of the Apostle's exhortation: "If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone" (Romans 12:18).

© John's Repentance
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.
https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2462 | date:2024-03-07T21:01:09 ---
👉🏾  About Spiritual #Melody, #Zema and the #EOTC

👉 Question፦ Greetings beloved brother Yohannes Neseha. I am Dcn. Zefre Birhan and I serve at Holy Trinity located in Bronx Ny. I have a question.

My question is now speaking of St. Yared. I am well aware that God took St. Yared into the heavens and that the Holy Spirit filled his mind with the holy Mezmur and Zema.

All though what alarms my mind is how were the melodies of the zema and mezmur of our church. The Ethiopian Orthodox Church created. Please get back to me when you get the chance to.

Sincerely,
Dcn. Zefre Birhan

Answer፦ Beloved Deacon Zefre Birhan,

Before the divine intervention bestowed upon Saint Yared, the worship within the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, like in other early Christian communities, likely utilized simpler chants and hymns. These early melodies and verses would have been more rudimentary, focusing on the Psalms and scriptural canticles, reflecting the Jewish temple worship traditions from which Christian liturgy originated.

In the providence of God, the liturgical music before Saint Yared served its purpose in the divine worship, yet it was through Saint Yared's visionary experience that the Church was endowed with a richer, more profound liturgical expression. This transformation symbolizes a deepening of the Church's liturgical life, a transition from simplicity to a more elaborate, heaven-inspired worship, which has profoundly shaped the spiritual identity of our Church.

Just as King David played his harp and sang the Psalms, enriching the worship of the Old Testament, Saint Yared, through divine inspiration, enhanced the worship of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, embedding within it a heavenly dimension and a deeper mystical resonance.

The tradition of our church teaches us that the melodies and hymns, as received by Saint Yared, were indeed divinely inspired during his rapturous ascent into the heavens. It was in this mystical communion with the Divine that the Holy Spirit imbued him with the celestial melodies and hymns that form the bedrock of our liturgical worship.

In your service, Deacon Zefre, I encourage you to delve deeply into the mystical and spiritual essence of the Zema and Mezmur, allowing their divine melodies to elevate your heart and those of your congregation closer to God. As you guide your flock in the sacred liturgy, remember that you are echoing the angelic choruses of heaven, bridging earth to the divine, and partaking in the heavenly liturgy.

Now, dear brother in Christ, how will you further immerse yourself in the spiritual legacy of Saint Yared to enrich your ministry and deepen your congregation's worship experience?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2468 | date:2024-03-09T21:03:45 ---


--- id:2469 | date:2024-03-09T21:04:21 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Zewerede: The First Sunday of the #Great #Lent

Beloved in Christ, as we stand at the threshold of this sacred season of the Great Lent, let us turn our hearts and minds to the profound mystery and divine significance that the first Sunday, known as Zewerede, unfolds before us.

The Divine Condescension: The Essence of Zewerede

At the heart of Zewerede lies the awe-inspiring truth of the Incarnation, the descent of the Word made flesh, our Lord Jesus Christ, from the celestial heights to our earthly realm. This momentous event, which Zewerede commemorates, is not merely a historical occurrence but a living reality that invites us to contemplate the unfathomable love of God, who, in His infinite mercy, became man to redeem us. As we reflect on this divine condescension, let us remember the words of the Apostle Paul: "But when the fullness of the time had come, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman" (Galatians 4:4). In this sacred act, the divine and human natures are wondrously united, offering us a path to salvation and union with God.

The Covenant of Salvation: A Bridge Between Testaments

Zewerede also beckons us to ponder the enduring covenants that God has established with humanity throughout history. These covenants are not mere agreements but profound expressions of God's steadfast love and commitment to our redemption. In the solemn observance of Zewerede, we are reminded of the continuity between the Old and New Testaments, between the promise made to Adam and its fulfillment in Christ. As we engage in this fast, let us embrace this covenantal relationship with God, allowing it to strengthen our faith and deepen our commitment to His will.

The Call to Fasting and Prayer: Our Spiritual Armor

The practice of fasting during the great lent is not merely an external abstention from food but an inward journey of purification, self-denial, and spiritual renewal. In the words of John Chrysostom, "Fasting is the soul of prayer, mercy is the lifeblood of fasting. If we have not all three together, we have nothing." Therefore, let us fast with a pure heart, seeking not only to abstain from bodily pleasures but also to cultivate virtues, to offer prayers of intercession, and to engage in acts of charity and mercy. In this way, our fasting becomes a powerful instrument of divine grace, fortifying us against temptations and drawing us closer to the heart of God.

The Intercession of the Saints: Our Companions in Prayer

As we embark on this Lenten journey, let us seek the intercession of the saints, those holy men and women who have walked the path of faith before us. Their lives of holiness and devotion inspire us to persevere in our spiritual endeavors, and their prayers on our behalf are a source of strength and encouragement. In particular, let us invoke the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary, who, in her humility and obedience, became the Theotokos, the Mother of God. Through her prayers, may we find the grace to follow Christ more closely and to live in accordance with His teachings.

Conclusion: A Call to Spiritual Vigilance

In conclusion, let us approach the observance of the great lent with a spirit of humility, attentiveness, and fervent devotion. May this sacred time be for us a period of reflection, repentance, and spiritual growth, that we may emerge from this Lenten season renewed in spirit and more closely conformed to the image of Christ. And as we journey through these forty days, let us remember the ultimate purpose of our fast: to draw near to God, to experience His transforming love, and to participate in the mystery of our salvation.

May the grace and peace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all, now and always. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2471 | date:2024-03-12T01:33:24 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #trials that come with #fasting

In the observance of fasting, a discipline most venerable and ancient, we find ourselves embarking upon a journey that is both deeply personal and universally profound, much akin to the transformative passages detailed in the lives of the saints and the righteous. As we enter this solemn period, particularly marked by the commencement of the Great Lent, it is incumbent upon us to contemplate the manifold trials that accompany this spiritual endeavor, discerning their purpose and the divine wisdom they impart.

The act of fasting, far from being a mere abstention from corporeal nourishment, stands as a profound invocation of spiritual renewal and fortitude. It is a testament to our intrinsic yearning for the divine, a conscious mortification of the flesh to kindle the spirit's flame. Yet, it is in this very act of denial that we often encounter an array of trials, for it is a fundamental truth that the gold is tested by fire, and the faithful by the adversities they face.

Why, then, do these trials emerge with greater intensity as we fast and draw nearer to God? It is a question that resonates with the experiences of many devout souls who, in their pursuit of spiritual elevation, find themselves beset by temptations and tribulations. The answer lies not in the nature of fasting as a cause of these trials but in its capacity to illuminate the struggles inherent in our earthly pilgrimage.

The trials encountered during fasting are not indicators of divine disfavor but rather manifestations of spiritual warfare, wherein the forces that oppose our sanctification intensify their assaults as we strive to ascend the ladder of divine ascent. In fasting, our senses are sharpened, and our spiritual awareness is heightened, rendering us more attuned to the conflict between virtue and vice, light and darkness.

As we navigate the tempestuous waters of these trials, it is imperative to recall the purpose and the transformative power of fasting. It is a discipline that, as the Holy Scriptures and the teachings of the Church Fathers assert, bears the potential to vanquish passions, cultivate virtues, and draw the soul closer to the ineffable presence of God. It is a time of introspection and renewal, a sanctified period wherein the soul, liberated from the fetters of indulgence, soars toward the divine.

Fasting, therefore, should be embraced as a sacred opportunity to fortify the spirit, to confront and conquer the impulses that tether us to our lower nature. It is a call to spiritual arms, an invitation to engage in the noble struggle for holiness and purity of heart. As we persevere through the trials of fasting, let us do so with the assurance that these adversities, however daunting, are instrumental in our spiritual growth, shaping us into vessels more receptive to God's grace.

In conclusion, let the trials of fasting not dishearten us but rather inspire us with a resolute determination to press onward, ever upward, on our journey toward sanctity. Let us embrace these challenges as integral elements of our spiritual maturation, recognizing in them the divine pedagogy that seeks to refine our souls. And in this sacred endeavor, may we find solace in the fellowship of the saints, the guidance of the Church, and the inexhaustible mercy of God, who, in His infinite wisdom, transforms our tribulations into triumphs of the spirit.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2472 | date:2024-03-13T21:00:02 ---


--- id:2474 | date:2024-03-14T21:23:34 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Sacrament of the #Eucharist

Introduction 

The Holy Eucharist, the pinnacle of Christian worship and life, stands as the true embodiment of our Lord Jesus Christ's presence among His faithful. This sacred ritual, often termed the Divine Liturgy in the Orthodox tradition, is not merely a remembrance but a living, mystical participation in the very life, death, and resurrection of Christ.

1. The Essence of the Holy Eucharist

At the heart of the Eucharist lies the profound mystery of transubstantiation, wherein bread and wine are transformed into the very Body and Blood of Christ. This is not a symbolic act but a divine reality, veiled under the forms of bread and wine. As John Chrysostom himself might say, it is through this divine banquet that heaven and earth embrace, and the faithful are invited to partake in the eternal.

2. The Sacramental Mystery

The Eucharist is called a mystery (sacramentum in Latin, mysterion in Greek) because it transcends human understanding. Its truth is apprehended not through intellectual reasoning but through the eyes of faith. In the liturgical celebration, the Church experiences a foretaste of the heavenly kingdom, a mystical participation in the eternal now of God's salvific acts.

3. The Significance of Holy Communion

The Eucharist is central to the Christian faith because it is the fulfillment of Christ's promise to be with us always (Matthew 28:20). In it, we find the true manna from heaven, the Bread of Life (John 6:35), which nourishes our souls and unites us with the divine nature.

4. The Worthy Reception of Communion

Approaching the Holy Communion demands a heart prepared through prayer, confession, and a sincere desire to amend one's life. The worthy recipient is not one who is sinless but one who recognizes their unworthiness and approaches with humility, repentance, and faith.

5. Preparation and Thanksgiving

The preparation for receiving the Eucharist involves fasting, prayer, and reconciliation with others, reflecting an inner disposition of humility and love. Post-communion, the faithful are called to carry the grace received into the world, living out the Gospel in deeds of love and service.

The Eucharistic Celebration: An Encounter with the Living Christ

The Divine Liturgy is a journey that begins with repentance and culminates in the mystical supper. It is in this sacred meal that the Church experiences the Paschal Mystery of Christ: His suffering, death, resurrection, and glorious ascension. The bread and wine, offered in faith, become by the Holy Spirit the very Body and Blood of Christ.

The Anamnesis: Remembering the Saving Acts of Christ

In the Eucharistic prayer, the Church recalls the life-giving events of Christ's incarnation, death, and resurrection. This memorial (anamnesis) is not a mere recollection but makes present the realities of these salvific events. Through it, the faithful are united with Christ's one, perfect, and sufficient sacrifice on the Cross.

Communion: The Pledge of Future Glory

In receiving the Eucharist, Christians are mystically united with Christ and with one another, forming the Body of Christ, the Church. This communion is a foretaste of the eschatological banquet, the heavenly feast in the Kingdom of God.

Conclusion: The Eucharist as the Source and Summit of Christian Life

The Holy Eucharist stands at the center of Orthodox Christian life. It is the source from which all grace flows and the summit to which all Christian action is directed. In it, the Church finds her identity and mission, to be the sacrament of Christ in the world, proclaiming the Good News and manifesting the Kingdom of God in love, service, and sanctity.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2475 | date:2024-03-14T21:30:01 ---


--- id:2476 | date:2024-03-14T21:33:01 ---
👉🏾 About our father #Abune #Gebre_Menfes_Kidus

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, today was the annual feast of Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus where we commemorate his departure from the earth to the heavens. Hence we send you the following lesson so you can read and partake from the day's blessings. 

The life and teachings of St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus, a revered figure in Orthodox Christianity, offer a profound testament to the power of faith, asceticism, and divine intervention. His story begins in the land of Egypt, where his parents, Simeon and Aklesia, longed for a child for thirty years. In a miraculous occurrence, akin to the biblical stories of old, a divine voice promised them a son whose glory would surpass the heavens. This prophecy was fulfilled with the birth of Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus.

From his infancy, he exhibited signs of divine favor. His actions as a newborn, glorifying the Holy Trinity, and his angelic lifestyle, abstaining from earthly sustenance, marked him as a holy vessel. At the tender age of three, he was visited by Saint Gabriel, who brought blessings from the Virgin Mary and the celestial host. The Abbot Zemedeberhan, recognizing his sanctity, nurtured him in monastic life, where he flourished in spiritual wisdom and miraculous powers. His fame spread far and wide, leading to a pivotal moment when he healed a thousand blind men, a miracle reminiscent of Christ's own healings.

The spiritual journey of St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus was marked by profound solitude and communion with God. He was called to a life of seclusion in the forest, where his sustenance was of a heavenly nature, symbolic of man's reliance on divine grace rather than earthly provisions. His time in the wilderness was a testament to his unyielding faith and deep communion with God.

The saint's concern for humanity's salvation was paramount. His intercessions led to the liberation of souls from hell, showcasing his immense spiritual authority. His journey to Ethiopia, carried by Saint Gabriel, was a pivotal moment in his mission. There, he prayed fervently for the nation, an act of love and sacrifice, embodying the heart of a true shepherd.

St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus's life was not without trials. His encounter with Satan, who sought to hinder his mission, resulted in his temporary blindness. Yet, in this adversity, he was not forsaken; Saint Michael and Saint Gabriel came to his aid, a testimony to his favored status in the heavenly realms.

His ministry extended to Arabia, where he confronted idolatry and demonstrated the power of Christ through miraculous signs, converting many to Christianity. Even in the face of persecution, his faith remained unshaken, further attesting to his divine calling and steadfastness.

The life of St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus culminated in a glorious ascent, taken by angels to Jerusalem, where he was laid to rest. His earthly journey of 562 years, of which 262 was spent in Ethiopia, was marked by unwavering devotion, miraculous deeds, and a deep, transformative love for God and humanity.

This account of St. Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus, steeped in the traditions and teachings of Orthodox Christianity, serves as a beacon of spiritual guidance. His life exemplifies the virtues of faith, humility, and divine communion, offering a path to spiritual enlightenment and closeness to God. In his story, we find a profound reminder of the endless possibilities that faith in God can unlock, and the transformative power of living a life dedicated to divine service and love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2480 | date:2024-03-15T21:45:02 ---
👉🏾 About #misuse of #sacred_texts

Question፦ Hello, 

I have a question about something i’ve been hearing about but don’t really understand. What exactly is “metet” and how come there are people in the church (priests and deacons) that do these things using church prayer books? How can something evil be done with a Holy Book & church leaders? And what are people supposed to do to protect themselves from evil things like this that people do. 

Thank you!

Answer፦ Dear seeker of truth,

I am grateful for your question, which touches upon a profound and delicate aspect of our faith and practice. The term "metet" might not be familiar to many outside the Ethiopian Orthodox community; it refers to the misuse of sacred texts and prayers, twisting them for purposes not aligned with God's will. Such actions, no matter who commits them, are deeply contrary to the teachings of our Church and the very essence of Christianity.

In the Scripture, we are reminded, "Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good" (Romans 12:21). The core of our defense against any form of evil is our faith, prayer, and the grace of God. When sacred words are distorted, it is not the texts themselves that cause harm but the intent with which they are used. The Holy Scriptures and our Church's prayer books are sources of life and healing, and when used rightly, they lead us closer to God.

To protect oneself from any form of evil, one should adhere firmly to the life of the Church, participating in the sacraments, engaging in regular prayer, and seeking the guidance of a spiritual father. The sanctity of our faith lies in its proper practice and in living a life modeled after Christ's teachings. By embedding ourselves in the authentic teachings and life of the Church, we shield our spirits from the corruption of the world.

In light of this, how will you deepen your commitment to living a true Orthodox Christian life, thereby safeguarding your soul from all that seeks to detract from its purity and sanctity?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2481 | date:2024-03-15T22:00:35 ---


--- id:2482 | date:2024-03-15T22:02:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 An Exhortation on the Nature of #Sin and the Path of #Repentance.

The Universality of Sin

In this temporal existence, no man stands aloof from the stain of sin; it clings to us as the earth to the rain. To acknowledge this is not to embrace despair but to recognize our profound need for Divine mercy. We are brethren in weakness, and in this acknowledgment, we find our common need for God's unending grace.

The Divine Forbearance Amidst Human Folly

Consider the magnanimity of our Creator, who, despite the manifold transgressions of humanity, sustains the cosmos with benevolence. The sun rises, the rain nourishes, and the earth abides, not as recompense for our virtue but as testament to God's forbearance. Were Divine justice to reckon our deeds without mercy, existence itself would falter.

The Peril of Spiritual Complacency

Beware the snare of complacency, for it is the herald of spiritual decay. To don the vestments of faith, to partake in the liturgy, and to frequent the holy sanctuaries are commendable acts. Yet, devoid of a heart inclined towards transformation, they are but hollow rituals. True sanctity and salvation are not garments we don, but states we earnestly strive towards through grace-infused perseverance.

The Exhortation of Humility

"He who exalts himself shall be humbled, and he who humbles himself shall be exalted" (Luke 14:11). This profound teaching underscores the paradoxical kingdom of Christ, where humility is the scepter and throne. In recognizing our fragility and penchant for sin, we are drawn closer to the Divine, for God dwells not amidst the fanfare of self-righteousness but in the quiet chambers of a contrite heart.

The Crucible of Repentance

Repentance is the beacon that guides us through the tempests of our baser inclinations. It is not merely the recitation of transgressions but a heartfelt renunciation of sin and a steadfast commitment to divine precepts. True repentance burgeons from the soil of self-awareness, nurtured by the waters of divine grace.

The Equality Before God

In the Divine gaze, all are equal: the rich and the poor, the sage and the simple. Our offerings are weighed not by their grandeur but by the purity of our intent. Recall the woman taken in adultery, brought before Christ to be judged. In her, we see the embodiment of mercy: "Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more" (John 8:11).

The Sanctity of Divine Judgment

Let us relinquish the mantle of judgment, for it is God alone who discerns the heart's secrets. In humility and love, we are called to bear one another's burdens, mindful of our shared frailty and the infinite mercy that sustains us.

In Closing

Let us, therefore, gird ourselves with the armor of penitence, treading the narrow path that leads to life eternal. May we, through God's grace, transform our weakness into strength, our despair into hope, and our sin into a clarion call for redemption. In this sacred endeavor, may we find solace in the love of the Almighty, the wellspring of all goodness and the harbinger of our salvation. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2486 | date:2024-03-16T21:30:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Understanding our #Calling 

Question፦ Thank you father! :) well since you brought up the topic of one’s calling I’ll go ahead & ask one of my questions related to that which was about discovering ones life calling / discovering our God given gift. 

Answer፦ How did you come to discover your divine calling & how can we as believers discover the natural gift God has given to each of us to better serve our church community & find a fulfilling career where we thrive in.

Beloved one, Discovering one's divine calling is a journey of deep reflection, prayer, and engagement with the community and God's word. For many, including myself, the path to understanding our vocation unfolds over time, often through various experiences, challenges, and moments of clarity that God provides along the way.

In my own journey, persistent prayer, meditation on Scripture, and the counsel of wise spiritual elders were instrumental. The sense of calling emerged not as a sudden revelation but as a growing conviction nurtured by these practices and a deep desire to serve God and His people.

For believers seeking to discern their natural gifts and God-given vocation, I would offer the following guidance, rooted in the teachings and traditions of the Church:

1. Pray for Guidance: Consistently seek God’s direction in your life through prayer. Ask Him to reveal your gifts and how you can use them for His glory. "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matthew 7:7).

2. Study Scripture: The Bible is replete with examples of individuals who discovered their callings through faith and obedience. Reflecting on these stories can offer insights into how God might be working in your own life.

3. Serve in Your Community: Often, our God-given talents are revealed through service. By participating in various church and community activities, you can identify what brings you joy and where you make the most impact.

4. Seek Godly Counsel: Consult with spiritual leaders, mentors, or elders within your church. Their wisdom and outside perspective can help you discern your gifts and how they might be used in service to the church and the world.

5. Reflect on Your Passions and Talents: Consider the activities that give you the most joy and fulfillment. Often, our God-given gifts align with our interests and talents. Reflect on how these can be applied in a career or ministry context.

6. Be Patient: Discerning your calling is a process that unfolds in God’s timing. Remain faithful and patient, knowing that He will reveal your path in due course.

As you seek to discover your vocation, remember that each believer's calling is unique, and every role within the body of Christ is valuable and needed. In finding and pursuing your divine calling, you not only find fulfillment but also contribute to the edification and growth of the church.

In what ways have you felt drawn to serve or noticed particular talents or passions that might be directed toward a specific calling?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2488 | date:2024-03-17T22:15:35 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #faith, #works and #salvation 

Question፦ Hello,I have a question? 

Are we are justified by our faith or by our works in the Kingdom of God?

Or is it both?
As faith without works is dead.


Thanks

Answer፦ 
Beloved in Christ, Your inquiry touches upon the profound mystery of our salvation in the Lord. The Orthodox Church teaches us that faith and works are inseparable in the journey toward the Kingdom of God. As the Apostle James wisely instructs us, "Faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead" (James 2:17). This passage illuminates the truth that genuine faith naturally manifests through loving actions toward God and our neighbor.

In the Orthodox understanding, we are initially justified by grace through faith, which then must be actualized through our deeds. This dynamic synergy between faith and works reflects our cooperation with God's grace, guiding us to grow in holiness and union with Him.

To cultivate this balance, I encourage you to deepen your prayer life, engage in acts of charity, and seek guidance from a spiritual father who can accompany you on your path. By embracing both faith and works, you are actively participating in your own sanctification, drawing nearer to God and His Kingdom.

Now, dear seeker, what step will you take today to demonstrate your faith through loving action?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2489 | date:2024-03-17T22:18:01 ---
👉🏾 About the #Ethiopian #Orthodox #Tewahedo Church 

Question፦ I mean what does the name Orthodox represent in our faith. Henceforth, why do we call our church the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, the term "Orthodox" stems from the Greek words "orthos," meaning correct or true, and "doxa," meaning belief or glory. Thus, "Orthodox" signifies "correct belief" or "true worship." This term encapsulates our commitment to preserving the authentic teachings and traditions as handed down from Christ Himself to His Apostles and through them to the Church.

The use of "Orthodox" began in the early Christian era, particularly as a way to distinguish the Church that adhered faithfully to the teachings defined in the Ecumenical Councils from various heretical groups that had diverged from these established doctrines. It was crucial in times of doctrinal disputes to affirm the identity of the Church that remained faithful to the apostolic and patristic teachings. Hence, the term "Orthodox" became a definitive marker of the true Church that maintained fidelity to the Christian faith as it was universally recognized and proclaimed.

The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church embodies this commitment to orthodoxy, having received the Christian faith in the early Apostolic Age and nurtured it through centuries, steadfast amid various challenges. Our adherence to the term "Orthodox" is a testament to our dedication to uphold the true faith and practices as received from the generations of faithful who preceded us.

The word "Tewahedo" uniquely characterizes our Ethiopian Orthodox faith, signifying the unity of Christ's divine and human natures in one, without division or separation. This profound theological principle is intrinsic to our faith, shaping our worship, our spirituality, and our very identity as followers of Christ in the Ethiopian tradition.

Our Church, bearing the name Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, thus stands as a beacon of the undiluted Christian faith, embracing the unity of Christ and the apostolic teachings preserved and cherished in our tradition.

As you contemplate the meaning behind our Church's name, I encourage you to delve deeper into the richness of the Tewahedo doctrine. How might this understanding of Christ's nature influence your relationship with Him and guide your steps on the path of salvation?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2493 | date:2024-03-18T23:15:21 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Reflections for the Second Week of the #Great #Lent; '#Holy'

The second week of the Great Lent, termed as "Holy," beckons us deeper into the heart of spiritual introspection and communion with the Divine.

The Sacred Inception: The Forbearance of Christ

Our Lord Jesus Christ, the epitome of holiness, commenced His salvific mission in the seclusion of Corinth's monastery, embarking upon a fast of forty days and nights. This sacred undertaking, devoid of any earthly sustenance, heralds the depth of divine commitment, symbolizing an unbroken communion with the Father. The Gospel according to Matthew (4:2) narrates this act of profound devotion, reminding us that it is through self-denial and spiritual fortitude that we draw nearer to God.

The Quintessence of Holiness

Holiness, inherently attributed to the Divine, is the immutable nature of God Himself—unchangeable, eternal, and derived from no other. It is this divine attribute that the scriptures laud, beckoning us to sanctify His name in our prayers and deeds. Just as the sanctity of God is innate, so is our call to holiness, extended to all creations: humans, angels, sacred spaces, and consecrated times.

The Holiness of Grace: Our Divine Mandate

The holiness bestowed upon us is one of grace, an invitation to partake in the divine nature. It echoes through the exhortations of Saint Peter: "Be ye holy, for I am holy." This divine summons is not merely an invitation but a directive to embody holiness in every facet of our existence. It speaks of a love that predates creation, a divine preference that chose us for glory and purity, life and sanctity.

Our Existential Purpose and the Call to Holiness

We are fashioned by the Almighty to dwell in His presence, to emulate His purity, and to share in His eternal reign. This divine purpose mandates a life of holiness, devoid of any concord with sin or darkness. As stated in the First Epistle of Peter (1:15), our every act, word, and choice should glorify God, manifesting our devotion through our corporeal existence and moral choices.

Emulating Christ: The Paradigm of Faith

In our pursuit of holiness, let us look to Jesus, the progenitor and perfecter of our faith, who, for the joy set before Him, endured the cross, scorning its shame. Now enthroned in divine majesty, He beckons us to cast aside the yoke of sin and persist in our spiritual race with patience and endurance (Hebrews 12:1).

As we journey through this Lenten season, let us meditate deeply on the essence of holiness, allowing it to permeate our being and guide our path. May our journey through this second week of Lent be a testament to our earnest pursuit of holiness, a beacon of divine light guiding us toward the ultimate joy of resurrection and life in Christ. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2494 | date:2024-03-19T21:30:02 ---
👉🏾 About #Relationships

👉 Question፦ My following question is related to love. 

Ive asked many questions like “where is my Godly spouse?” “When will he come?” “Why is God making me wait?” “How can I learn to be more patient through this process?” “Why am I so pressed or obsessed with the idea of having a man in my life?” “What’s the best way to vet out if a person or an offer is from God or the enemy?” 

I was hoping you could help answer some of these questions.

Answer፦ Beloved one, your heartfelt inquiries about finding a godly spouse are shared by many, and it's beautiful to see your desire to align this aspect of your life with God's will. Your experiences, including the anticipation and the encounters with potential partners, are all part of the journey God is using to shape you, preparing you for the future He has planned.

In addressing your questions and concerns:

1. God's Timing and Purpose: While waiting can be challenging, it's important to trust in God's timing. He knows the desires of your heart and is working all things for your good (Romans 8:28). This period of waiting is not passive but an active time of growth, self-discovery, and deepening your relationship with God.

2. Patience in the Process: Developing patience can be cultivated through continued trust in God's promises and faithfulness. Reflect on past instances where God has been faithful to you; this can bolster your trust and patience. Remember, "But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint" (Isaiah 40:31).

3. Self-Reflection: Your question about being "pressed or obsessed" with finding a partner is insightful. It's beneficial to explore your feelings and desires in prayer and perhaps with a trusted spiritual counselor. Sometimes, understanding deeper motivations can bring clarity and peace, helping you to focus on God's presence and love in the present.

4. Discerning God's Will in Relationships: To discern whether someone is a potential spouse sent by God or a distraction, seek alignment with Scriptural principles and godly character traits. Prayer, time, and godly counsel are crucial. Observe their fruits of the Spirit (Galatians 5:22-23), how they treat others, and their commitment to their faith and personal growth.

5. Preparation for Marriage: Use this time to prepare yourself to be the godly spouse you desire to have. Grow in virtues like kindness, patience, and love. Engage in activities that build your character and deepen your faith.

6. Being Proactive in a Godly Way: While waiting on God, it's also okay to be part of Christian groups or activities where you can meet someone with shared values. However, let these interactions be natural and spirit-led rather than forced.

Your journey to finding a godly spouse is also a journey of self-discovery and spiritual growth. Cherish this time with God, knowing that your relationship with Him is the foundation upon which all other relationships are built.

Would you consider taking time to reflect more deeply on what God might be teaching you in this season of waiting and how you might grow through it?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2501 | date:2024-03-22T23:30:02 ---


--- id:2502 | date:2024-03-22T23:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy #Eucharist 

Brethren in the Lord, who stand steadfast in the unwavering Orthodox faith, grace unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Today we will be learning about the holy Eucharist, which stands as the pinnacle of our redemption and the very lifeblood of the Church.

✍ The Incarnation: The Prologue to the Eucharist

Before we venture into the holy of holies, let us lay a foundation by reflecting upon the Incarnation, which is the cornerstone of all Christian doctrine. In the fullness of time, God, in His inscrutable wisdom, willed to be united with man. "The Word became flesh and dwelt among us" (John 1:14). This is not a mere visitation but an abiding union. The Godhead was pleased to dwell bodily (Colossians 2:9), and in this union, the natures of divinity and humanity are neither confounded nor separated but are united without mixture or change.

In this mystical union, Christ fully assumed our nature, bearing our griefs, carrying our sorrows, yet without sin. As Saint Cyril rightly proclaimed, the nature that needed salvation was not passed over. Thus, the unblemished Lamb, perfect God and perfect Man, presented Himself as the only sacrifice capable of redeeming our fallen state.

✍ The Eucharist: The Continuation of Incarnation

The Eucharist, dear faithful, is not separate from this grand narrative; it is the perpetuation of the Incarnation. Just as the divine nature did not obliterate the human in Christ, so the essence of bread and wine is not destroyed when consecrated as the Body and Blood. Here, the Church in her wisdom teaches us that in this Holy Sacrament, there is a mystical but real transformation, akin to the Incarnation itself.

As the Lord Jesus, at His Last Supper, did not speak in parables when He said, "This is my body... This is my blood" (Matthew 26:26-28), we take Him at His divine word, acknowledging a mystery that cannot be fathomed by the human mind but is apprehended by faith.

✍ The Eucharist: The Apex of Theology

In the Eucharist, we find the sum and summit of all theological truth. It is the tangible expression of God's love, the assurance of His promise, the fulfillment of the covenant. The Eucharist stands as a foretaste of the eschatological feast, where the Church militant and the Church triumphant are united in the worship of the Lamb.

This Sacrament is not a mere remembrance but an anamnesis, a making present of the one sacrifice of Calvary. In the Divine Liturgy, we are lifted above time and space, and the events of our redemption are made present to us, that we might partake of the fruits of the Tree of Life which is Christ Himself.

✍ The Eucharist: The Medicine of Immortality

Saint Ignatius of Antioch called the Eucharist the "medicine of immortality," and rightly so. For as much as the body requires bread for sustenance, so too does the soul require the Body of Christ for eternal life. In this Holy Communion, we are united to Christ and through Him to one another, forming one body, of which He is the head.

To partake of the Eucharist unworthily is to eat and drink judgment upon oneself (1 Corinthians 11:29). Hence, the Church, as a loving mother, calls her children to approach with a pure heart, having confessed and repented, that they might be made partakers of divine nature (2 Peter 1:4).

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:2503 | date:2024-03-22T23:36:02 ---
✍ Conclusion: The Call to Union with Christ

The Eucharist calls us to a life of holiness and union with Christ. It is not an end in itself but the means to our sanctification and salvation. To commune is to abide in Christ and to have Christ abide in us. Here, the faithful are invited to partake of the divine banquet, to enter into the joy of their Master, and to be transformed into the image of the One who gave Himself up for us all.

Let us, therefore, draw near with faith and with an ardent desire to be united with Christ, to be healed by His touch, and to be sanctified by His life-giving Body and Blood. May this Holy Sacrament be for us a pledge of the world to come and a haven of salvation in this present age.

In the words of our beloved Saint John Chrysostom, "O taste and see that the Lord is good" (Psalm 34:8), and let us partake of this banquet with the angels, making earth

 join with heaven, in the unending hymn of praise.

Through the prayers of our Holy Fathers, Lord Jesus Christ our God, have mercy on us. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2506 | date:2024-03-23T21:37:37 ---
👉🏾 About #Anxiety

Question፦ My question is about fear & anxiety. I have struggled with social anxiety for a long time now, and it affects different areas of my life, like work, church, and social events. It affects how I function and interact with others in these different situations. I want to be free and not a prisoner of my mind. I really wanna find the confidence and courage to be able to walk over to someone at work and strike up a conversation, to join in on conversations with my team, to ask questions when I feel stuck or need help, to approach others at church and build that community, to speak up in meetings/groups..etc. I do pray during these situations for God to help me but sometimes I just feel stuck like there is no way for me to become a better version of myself because I can't break out of this cycle. Please help.

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, the struggle with fear and anxiety, especially in the form of social anxiety, is a heavy burden, but it is one that can be lightened through the grace and peace of our Lord. You are not alone in this battle, and it's a path many faithful have walked before, finding solace and strength in God's presence and promises.

In the Scriptures, we are repeatedly encouraged to cast our anxieties on the Lord, for He cares for us (1 Peter 5:7). The Psalmist also speaks to us in our fears, "When I am afraid, I put my trust in you" (Psalm 56:3). These are not mere words but powerful truths to live by, offering us a foundation of trust in God's providential care.

To address social anxiety and grow in confidence and courage, consider the following steps, deeply rooted in the Orthodox tradition and the teachings of the Church:

1. Prayer and Scripture: Continue to make prayer your first resort in times of anxiety. Incorporate specific prayers for courage and peace into your daily routine. Engaging with Scripture can also be immensely comforting. Passages like Joshua 1:9, where God commands Joshua to be strong and courageous, can be particularly uplifting.

2. Participation in the Sacraments: The Sacraments, especially Confession and Communion, are sources of grace and healing. Through Confession, we can lay down our burdens and receive counsel, and in Communion, we are united with Christ, who strengthens us.

3. Seek Guidance from a Spiritual Father: Discussing your struggles with a spiritual father can provide not only spiritual guidance but also practical advice tailored to your situation.

4. Gradual Exposure and Small Goals: With prayer and trust in God, set small, achievable goals for yourself. For example, you might decide to speak to one person at church this Sunday or ask one question during a meeting at work. Celebrate these small victories, and gradually increase your goals as you become more comfortable.

5. Practice Mindfulness and Presence in God’s Creation: Sometimes, anxiety can stem from being too future-focused or self-centered in our thoughts. Practicing mindfulness—being present in the moment and aware of God’s creation around us—can help shift our perspective and reduce anxiety.

6. Christian Fellowship and Support: Engage in church groups or Christian fellowship where you can share your struggles in a safe environment. These settings can also provide opportunities to practice social interactions in a less pressured environment.

7. Reflect on the Lives of Saints: Many saints experienced profound fear and anxiety, yet they found strength in God. Reading their stories can be inspiring and offer practical insights into overcoming fear with faith.

Remember, your worth and identity are rooted in Christ, not in your social performance or perceptions. God loves you infinitely and knows your struggles. With each step you take, no matter how small, you are moving toward the freedom and peace He desires for you.

Would it be possible for you to choose one small goal to achieve this week, as a step toward overcoming social anxiety, trusting that God walks with you in this journey?

--- id:2507 | date:2024-03-23T21:37:37 ---
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2509 | date:2024-03-23T21:49:29 ---
👉🏾 About the book of #Psalms 

Question፦ What is God trying to tell his disciples through this psalm. Also, what is the deep significance behind the reading psalms?

Answer፦ In the heart of the Psalms, we find a reflection of the human soul in all its aspects: joy, sorrow, hope, despair, faith, and doubt. They are prayers that Christ Himself prayed and thereby sanctified, teaching us that in these sacred hymns, we find a direct pathway to commune with God. The Psalms, therefore, are not merely readings; they are the breath of the Church's life, an intimate dialogue between the Creator and His creation.

Consider Psalm 139 (138 in the Septuagint), "O Lord, You have searched me and known me." This Psalm, like many others, reveals the omniscience and omnipresence of God, teaching His disciples about His unfathomable love and the profound knowledge He has of each one of us. It invites us into a deep trust in God, who knows our path and our lying down and is acquainted with all our ways.

The reading of Psalms is deeply significant because it provides us with the words when we have none, elevates our soul, and aligns our heart with the will of God. It teaches us patience, humility, and the profound beauty of repentance. As St. John Chrysostom beautifully articulated, "He who recites the Psalms is uttering them as his own words, and each sings them as if they were written concerning him." They are a mirror to our soul and a guide to our spiritual journey.

As you engage with the Psalms, let them transform you, guide you, and draw you closer to the heart of God. Reflect on how the Psalms resonate with your life and how they call you to live in deeper communion with God. What step will you take today to allow the Psalms to enrich your spiritual journey?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2517 | date:2024-03-26T22:02:33 ---
👉🏾 About #Material #Wealth 

👉 Question፦ When the church teachings ask us to assess where our treasure is. Does that mean we should prioritize God and have him at the center of our life. 

Or does it mean, we shouldn’t care too much about things like money. For example if a person wants to be a millionaire but puts God first and serves Him. Is that still having God as the treasure or is what God wants for us to leave wealth completely and follow him only? Like the bible story of the guy who did everything but wasn’t able to give up His wealth to follow God.

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, your inquiry touches upon a foundational teaching of our faith, mirrored in the profound words of our Lord Jesus Christ: "For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also" (Matthew 6:21). This passage invites us to reflect deeply on the orientation of our hearts and the true nature of our desires.

The teachings of the Church, drawing from the wellspring of Holy Scripture and the wisdom of the Fathers, guide us to understand that prioritizing God and centering our lives around Him does not inherently require the abandonment of all material wealth. Rather, it calls for a transformation in how we perceive and utilize such wealth. St. John Chrysostom, a voice echoing through the ages, teaches us that wealth, in itself, is not evil, but it becomes so depending on how we use it. Wealth should be seen as a tool for doing good, for serving the needs of the Church and the poor, thus becoming a means through which we can grow closer to God.

The story of the rich young man in the Gospels (Matthew 19:16-22) serves as a poignant reminder that when material possessions or the pursuit thereof eclipses our love for God and our neighbor, it becomes a barrier to entering the Kingdom of Heaven. It is not wealth itself that is the issue, but the attachment and priority we give it over our relationship with God.

In striving to be a millionaire, one must question: "Is this pursuit drawing me closer to God? Am I seeking wealth to serve Him and others, or is it fostering attachment, pride, and avarice within my heart?" Remember, our Lord Jesus Christ calls us to seek first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness (Matthew 6:33), trusting that all things necessary for our earthly journey will be provided to us according to His divine will.

As you continue to navigate the complexities of living a Christ-centered life in a material world, ask yourself: How can I use the resources and talents God has entrusted to me for the greater glory of His Kingdom? How can I ensure that my heart remains anchored in the love of God, regardless of my material success or failure?

Now, reflecting on these thoughts, what is one step you can take today to align your treasure with the Kingdom of Heaven?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2519 | date:2024-03-26T22:06:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Chatechism 

Question፦ Hello I was wondering what are the steps a convert should take when still being new to the faith before and after baptism besides understanding the sacraments and the 5 pillars ?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, in the journey you embark upon towards and beyond the holy sacrament of baptism, let us recall the words of St. Paul to the Philippians: "Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling" (Philippians 2:12).

First and foremost, deepen your relationship with God through prayer. Daily conversation with the Lord opens your heart to His guidance and strengthens your faith. The Jesus Prayer ("Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner") is a precious gem in our tradition, embodying the essence of humility and repentance.

Immerse yourself in Holy Scripture and the writings of the Church Fathers. The Scriptures are the living Word of God, offering nourishment for your soul, while the Fathers provide wisdom that connects us to the early Church.

Attend the Divine Liturgy and other services regularly, as participation in the communal worship of the Church is vital for spiritual growth. This will also connect you with a community of believers who share your journey and can offer support and encouragement.

Seek a spiritual father who can guide you with wisdom and understanding. This mentorship is invaluable for navigating the challenges and questions that arise in your spiritual life.

Finally, involve yourself in the life of the Church through acts of charity and service. Our faith is lived not only through belief but through love expressed in action.

Beloved, what steps will you take today to draw closer to God and His Church, walking in the path of faith and repentance?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2520 | date:2024-03-26T22:21:35 ---
👉🏾 About the #Praise of #Mary

👉 Question፦ What is the significance of the Tefisihee Mariam that the Deacons say in our church? For example: Antee Wi’itu mesobe werq qeyih ante wisteta mena biruh? I’ve said it myself, but I just don’t know what the importantance of it is in our faith?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, the query you have brought forth touches the heart of our liturgical tradition, reflecting the depth and beauty of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church. The Tefisihee Mariam, or the Praise of Mary, is a significant hymn chanted by deacons, lauding the Virgin Mary, the Theotokos, for her pivotal role in the Incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ. This hymn exemplifies our veneration of the Mother of God, not as a deity, but as the chosen vessel through whom God became man for our salvation. It embodies our acknowledgment of her virtues and her unique place in our salvation history.

The verse you're referring to "አንቲ ውእቱ መሶበ ወርቅ ንጹሕ እንተ ውስቴታ መና ኅቡዕ ኅብስት ዘወረደ አም ሰምያት ወሀቤ  ሕይወት ለኩኩ ዓለም," which translates to "Thou art the pot of pure gold wherein is hidden the manna, the bread which came down from heaven giving life unto all the world," beautifully articulates the Orthodox Christian belief in Mary as the Ark of the New Covenant. Just as the pot of manna in the Old Testament was kept in the Ark of the Covenant as a testament to God's provision for the Israelites in the desert, Mary is honored as the one who bore Christ, the true Manna from heaven, who gives eternal life to the world.

This verse draws us into the deep typology found in Scripture, where Mary is seen as fulfilling and surpassing the types and symbols of the Old Testament. The pure gold of the pot signifies her purity and the divine choice, while the hidden manna, Christ Himself, is the sustenance for our souls, the Bread of Life, who came down from heaven to nourish and redeem us.

Saint Cyril of Alexandria, a luminary father of the Church, beautifully expounds on this, saying, "Hail, Mary Theotokos, venerable treasure of the whole world... through whom the Holy Trinity is glorified and adored,... through whom the precious Cross is venerated throughout the world, through whom heaven exults, through whom angels and archangels rejoice, through whom demons are put to flight,... through whom the fallen creature is raised up to heaven, through whom the whole creation, possessed by idolatry, has come to the knowledge of the truth."

Thus, the Tefisihee Mariam is not merely a hymn of praise but a profound theological affirmation of the Incarnation and the central role of the Virgin Mary in our salvation. It invites us to marvel at the mystery of God's love and providence, drawing us closer to Him through veneration of His mother.

This understanding and reverence for the Virgin Mary are not mere traditions but are deeply rooted in the Scripture and the teachings of the Church Fathers. They invite us to ponder the mystery of our salvation and the extraordinary role that Mary plays in it, encouraging us to seek her intercessions and to emulate her faith and obedience to God's will.

As you reflect on this, consider how the understanding of Mary as the vessel containing the Bread of Life enriches your faith and draws you closer to Christ. How might this deepen your appreciation for the divine services and your personal devotion to the Theotokos?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2525 | date:2024-03-27T21:30:01 ---
👉 About #fasting 

👉🏾 Question፦ Hello I have a question 

Why do we fast until 3pm? Is there a specific reason?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, the practice of fasting until 3pm is deeply rooted in the tradition of the Orthodox Church, reflecting our journey of self-denial, repentance, and communion with God. This specific time recalls the hour at which our Lord Jesus Christ gave up His spirit on the Cross for the salvation of the world, as noted in the Gospel of Matthew: "And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, 'Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?' that is, 'My God, My God, why have you forsaken me?'" (Matthew 27:46). By aligning our fast with this momentous hour, we unite ourselves more closely with the sufferings of Christ, remembering His ultimate sacrifice for us.

Fasting until 3pm allows us to exercise discipline over our physical desires, turning our focus towards spiritual nourishment and prayer. It is a tangible expression of our faith, reminding us to rely not on bread alone, "but on every word that comes from the mouth of God" (Matthew 4:4).

As you embark on this journey of fasting, consider how this practice might deepen your relationship with Christ. Reflect on the sacrifices He made for us and how we can offer our own small sacrifices as a way of drawing closer to Him. How might this period of fasting until 3pm enhance your spiritual life and lead you closer to the heart of God?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2529 | date:2024-03-27T22:03:38 ---


--- id:2530 | date:2024-03-27T22:03:47 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Mekurab: A Reflection on the Third Week of the Great Lent

In the heart of the Great Lent, there comes a week known by the faithful as Mekurab, translating from the ancient tongue as "Synagogue." This designation, while simple in its utterance, carries the weight of centuries, embodying the sacredness of worship and the solemnity of divine communion. It is within this week that the faithful are invited to journey deeper into the mystery of the Incarnation, where Christ Himself, the Word made flesh, enters into the synagogue, not merely as a participant, but as the very fulfillment of the Law and the Prophets.

The Synagogue, historically, stood as the gathering place of the faithful, where the Torah was read and God was worshipped in the beauty of holiness. It was in such a setting that our Lord often found Himself, teaching and revealing the depths of God’s love and commandments. The incident that marks the Mekurab week, as recalled in the sacred narrative, unfolds in the temple, where Christ, with righteous indignation, expels the merchants and money changers, proclaiming, "My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves." This act of purification is not merely an external cleansing of the physical space but an invitation to each soul to cleanse the temple of their own heart, making it a fitting abode for the Divine.

The Church, in her wisdom, has named the weeks of Lent, each carrying a profound spiritual theme that draws the faithful deeper into the mystery of Christ’s Passion and Resurrection. Mekurab, or Synagogue week, thus becomes a focal point where the faithful are called to reflect on the sanctity of God’s house, both the historical temple and the temple of their own hearts, and to recommit themselves to making it a place of true worship, prayer, and divine encounter.

The liturgical life of this week is rich with scriptural readings and hymns that echo the themes of worship, divine zeal, and the call to righteous living. This Sunday's song from Tsome Digua "ቦአ ኢየሱስ ምኩራበ አይሁድ ወመሐረ ቃለ ሃይማኖት..." invites the faithful to contemplate the Lord's teaching in the synagogue, His preference for mercy over sacrifice, and His lordship over the Sabbath. This encapsulates the essence of the Mekurab week, inviting a meditation on how Christ fulfills and transcends the Law, embodying the true Sabbath rest for the souls of the faithful.

Saint Paul’s message to the Colossians, as read in this week, warns against being judged by external observances, reminding the faithful that the substance belongs to Christ. This calls for a deeper understanding that true worship transcends mere ritualistic compliance and finds its essence in the person of Christ. Similarly, the readings from the Epistle of James challenge the faithful to embody their faith through works of mercy and righteousness, reflecting the living faith that justifies.

The liturgical readings culminate in the Gospel narrative of Christ cleansing the temple, a powerful image of divine zeal and the call to purity. The faithful are reminded that the temple, Christ's Body, destroyed and raised up in three days, is the ultimate sign of God's presence and action among His people. Thus, the Mekurab week, through its liturgical and scriptural dimensions, invites the faithful to a profound encounter with Christ, the true Temple, where they are called to become living stones, built up into a spiritual house, offering spiritual sacrifices.

In this holy week of Mekurab, let the faithful be drawn into the heart of worship, where heaven and earth meet in the person of Christ. Let them cleanse the temples of their hearts, making room for the indwelling of the Spirit, and let their lives reflect the beauty of divine worship, not confined to the walls of any synagogue or temple but carried within the temple of the heart, sanctified by the presence of Christ, our Passover Lamb, who invites us all into the eternal Sabbath of His love and peace.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:2531 | date:2024-03-27T22:03:54 ---
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please share with friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2538 | date:2024-03-31T21:45:29 ---
👉 About our Lord and Savior #Jesus Christ 

👉🏾 Question፦ Was Jesus born in Ethiopia?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, grace to you and peace. Your question touches on the incarnate mystery of our Lord, Jesus Christ, who was born in Bethlehem, as foretold by the prophets of old. The Prophet Micah proclaimed, "But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, though you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come for me one who will be ruler over Israel, whose origins are from of old, from ancient times" (Micah 5:2). This prophecy reveals the humility and divine plan of our Lord's nativity, not in Ethiopia, but in the land of Judea.

Ethiopia, however, holds a cherished place in Christian history, being one of the first nations to embrace the faith. The Ethiopian eunuch's baptism by Philip the Evangelist (Acts 8:26-40) signifies the spreading of the Gospel beyond the Jewish community, embracing all nations under the grace of Christ. This story is a testament to Ethiopia's early acceptance and devotion to the teachings of Christ, making it a beacon of faith from the earliest times.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please share with friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2539 | date:2024-03-31T21:48:01 ---
👉🏾 About the #deaconate and #priesthood

Question፦ Greetings again, I have another question. For me, being a Deacon is amazing. I feel like the Holy Spirit is dwelling with in me so much. I’m always intrigued to read the Holy Bible and to learn the Kidase. All though, I don’t know what a great blessing and significance being a Deacon truly is. Please explain to me the full history of Deaconhood and the history of the first Deacon who was known as St. Steven. Blessings, Goodnight.

Answer፦ Greetings in the peace of Christ,

The Diaconate is a sacred order, rich in history and spiritual significance, embodying service and dedication to the Church and to God’s people.

The role of a Deacon traces back to the early Church, as outlined in the Acts of the Apostles, chapter 6. The Apostles, overwhelmed by their responsibilities, sought out seven men "of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom," (Acts 6:3) to assist in serving the widows and the needy. This marked the beginning of the Diaconate. Among these seven was Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit (Acts 6:5), who became the first martyr for Christ, bearing witness to the truth of the Gospel even unto death. His martyrdom highlights the depth of commitment and sacrifice inherent in serving God and His Church.

Being a Deacon, therefore, is not merely a role or a function; it is a vocation to embody the love and service of Christ, to minister to the faithful, and to be a living witness to the Gospel. It is a call to humility, service, and sometimes, sacrifice, as exemplified by St. Stephen. 

Your attraction to the Holy Scriptures and the Kidase (Divine Liturgy) is a foundation upon which your service is built, for through them, you encounter Christ and convey His presence to others. The significance of your role lies in this very act of service and witness, in the footsteps of Christ and His saints.

"Whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your servant, and whoever wishes to be first among you shall be slave of all." (Mark 10:43-44)

Reflecting on the life and martyrdom of St. Stephen, how can you see your service as a Deacon being a reflection of Christ's service to the world?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please share with friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2544 | date:2024-04-02T21:31:00 ---


--- id:2545 | date:2024-04-02T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Metsague; the fourth week of the great #lent

In the observance of Great Lent, the Church invites us to reflect on the profound narrative of the healing at Bethesda during its fourth week. This week, known as Metsague, derives its name from the story of a man who had been afflicted with illness for thirty-eight years, as recounted in the Gospel of John, chapter 5, verses 1 through 9. This narrative, rich in symbolism and divine truth, serves as a beacon of hope and a call to spiritual awakening, inviting us to delve deeper into the mysteries of faith, healing, and the boundless mercy of God.

In this poignant account, we encounter a figure, Metsague, who embodies the plight of humanity, ensnared by the frailties of the body and the desolation of the spirit. Bethesda, the place of this miraculous healing, with its five porticoes, becomes a symbol of the Church itself, a sanctuary for the ailing, the lost, and the forsaken, awaiting the stirring of the waters of grace. Here, the afflicted gathered, yearning for deliverance, for a touch of the divine that would transform their suffering into salvation.

It was amid this tableau of human misery that Jesus Christ, the Physician of our souls and bodies, approached Metsague. In asking, "Do you want to be healed?" Christ reveals a fundamental truth of our spiritual journey—the necessity of our consent in the work of our own salvation. The man's response, marked by despair and resignation, echoes the condition of many souls who, though desiring deliverance, find themselves paralyzed by their infirmities, unable to reach the healing waters by their own strength.

In commanding Metsague to rise, take up his bed, and walk, Christ demonstrates His authority over sin and death, over all that binds humanity in chains of despair. This act of healing on the Sabbath, which aroused the ire of the legalistic observers, underscores the Lord's message that mercy triumphs over judgment, that the law of love supersedes the letter of the law. Through this miracle, Christ invites us to a Sabbath rest in Him, to find in His mercy and love the true healing of our souls.

Metsague's healing is not merely a historical event but a living testament to the ongoing work of Christ in the world. It beckons us to recognize our own infirmities, our own pools of Bethesda, where we lie in wait for the stirring of the waters. It challenges us to hear Christ's call to rise from our slumber of sin and despair, to embrace the cross of self-denial, and to walk in the newness of life that He offers.

As we journey through the third week of Great Lent, let us meditate upon the profound symbolism of Metsague's healing. Let us contemplate the depth of Christ's mercy, which seeks us out in our infirmities, asking each of us, "Do you want to be healed?" May our hearts respond with a fervent "Yes, Lord," trusting in His power to transform our lives, to bear our infirmities, and to guide us to the still waters of His peace.

In this time of solemn reflection, let us also remember that, like Metsague, we are called to be witnesses to the miracle of grace in our lives, to carry our bed of suffering and follow Christ with resolute faith. For in our healing, we are called not only to salvation but to bear witness to the glory of God, to become beacons of hope and instruments of His mercy in a world yearning for redemption.

May the story of Metsague inspire us to deeper faith, to a more profound understanding of our own need for healing, and to a renewed commitment to follow Christ, our Savior and Healer, through the arduous path of Lent to the glorious dawn of Resurrection.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please share with friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2548 | date:2024-04-04T21:09:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Service and #carrier choice 

👉Question፦ What does the church advise about careers that consume a lot of your time & potentially limit the amount of time you can spend in church service & activities ? 

For example if i want to become a doctor, the education process will keep me busy and limit the time i can spend in service. In addition, when i start working as a doctor it will be the same. Would this be considered okay as long as i strive to live a sacramental life and serve God with the time I have. Or would the church recommend carefully considering the careers we choose with respect to how that affects our service life. 

Thank you 🙏🏾

Answer፦ Dear beloved in Christ,

Your inquiry touches upon a fundamental aspect of our journey with the Lord, where the balance between worldly duties and spiritual commitments often presents a challenge. The Orthodox Church, deeply rooted in the wisdom of the Holy Scriptures and the teachings of the Fathers, offers a perspective that transcends the apparent dichotomy between secular occupations and spiritual life.

Saint Paul reminds us in Colossians 3:23, "Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men." This verse encapsulates the essence of the Christian approach to work and vocation. The Church does not discourage us from pursuing careers, such as in medicine, that demand a significant portion of our time. Rather, it encourages us to see our professions as arenas for serving Christ and manifesting His love. Being a doctor, you are provided with unique opportunities to serve Christ in the sick and the suffering, embodying the healing ministry of our Lord Jesus.

The key is to ensure that your career does not lead you away from your ultimate goal—the salvation of your soul and union with Christ. It is indeed possible to lead a sacramental life and serve God with the time you have, integrating your faith into your daily work. The challenge is to maintain a prayerful life and participate in the Church's sacraments as much as your circumstances allow.

Consider the words of St. John Chrysostom, who taught that every aspect of our lives could be an offering to God if done in a spirit of love and dedication to His glory. Your career as a doctor, fueled by compassion and the desire to alleviate suffering, can be a powerful ministry and a path to sanctity.

Reflecting on how to balance your career and spiritual life, ask yourself: How can I make my work an offering to God? What steps can I take to ensure that my profession strengthens rather than diminishes my relationship with Christ?

In serving others through your profession, you serve Christ Himself. What will be your first step to integrating your faith with your work, making your life a living testimony of God’s love and mercy?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please share with friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2551 | date:2024-04-05T21:31:03 ---


--- id:2552 | date:2024-04-05T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the yearly feast of #Medhanialem; the saviour of the world 

This feast, which we celebrate today, is rooted deeply in the ethos of our faith, and beckons us to a profound reflection on the Crucifixion, a pivotal moment where divinity intersects with humanity in an act of unparalleled love and redemption.

The narrative of the Crucifixion, as we have inherited through sacred tradition and the Gospel of John, unfolds in the shadow of Gethsemane. It was there, amidst the olive groves, where the tranquility of the night was pierced by the approach of those who sought to capture Jesus of Nazareth. His response, imbued with divine authority, "I am he," caused them to stagger and fall—a testament to the power of His presence and the depth of His willingness to embrace His fate.

This encounter underlines a profound truth: the Crucifixion was not an event borne out of vulnerability or defeat but a conscious sacrifice, chosen by the one who commands the stars and treads upon the waters. In this divine paradox, we find the essence of our faith—the Almighty, bound; the Creator, subjected to His creation; the Giver of Life, embracing death.

As the events of that fateful day unfolded, our Lord, adorned not with regal gold but with a crown of thorns, reveals the heart of God's kingdom: one not of earthly power but of sacrificial love. Mocked and scorned, bearing a cross that symbolized not only His suffering but the weight of humanity's sin, He advanced towards Golgotha. With each step, the reality of His mission became clearer—to reconcile the world unto Himself, transforming an instrument of torture into the beacon of hope.

Upon the hill where Adam's sin cast a long shadow, the New Adam was lifted high. Nailed to the cross, His outstretched arms gathered the expanse of human frailty, offering it up to the Father in an act of ultimate intercession. It was here, at Calvary, that the fountain of mercy was opened, washing away the stains of sin and bridging the chasm wrought by our transgressions.

The cruelty of His tormentors, the indifference of the onlookers, and the tears of the faithful formed the backdrop to this cosmic drama. Yet, beyond the physical torment—a number so vast it numbs the mind—was the spiritual anguish of the Son, forsaken, that the world might be redeemed.

This yearly feast of Medhanialem is not merely a historical remembrance but a living participation in the mystery of the Cross. It invites us to enter into the paradox of Christian life: that in dying we find life, in surrender, victory, and in suffering, joy. As we reflect on the Crucifixion, let us also look beyond, to the Resurrection, where the fullness of God's promise is realized, and the hope of glory shines undimmed.

May the remembrance of Jesus Christ's suffering, His cross, death, and resurrection, not only recall the depths from which we have been lifted but inspire us to live lives worthy of the calling we have received. In this holy contemplation, let us draw near to the heart of God, finding in His wounds our healing, in His death our life, and in His love the strength to carry our crosses with faith, hope, and love. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please share with friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2556 | date:2024-04-07T23:00:02 ---


--- id:2557 | date:2024-04-07T23:02:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Prayer 

"Pray unto him that thy way may be made straight" Tobi 4:9

Dear and respected members who follow Orthodox education and spiritual service conveyed on John's Repentance website, today we share an important lesson on the topic of prayer. We urge you to read and learn from it. 
 
The meaning of prayer is broad and deep:-
 
Prayer is a spiritual bridge through which man can connect with God.

Prayer is a tool of communication between man and God. (Matthew 6:6)

Prayer is a spiritual tool to defeat our enemy Satan.

Prayer is a special application that we ask for strength from the living God.

Prayer is a thanksgiving to God.

Prayer is a way we promise to God secretly that we will do legacy work once our prayer is answered.
 
Prayer is a way for a person to communicate with the Creator through his religion, thanking the Creator and begging for the forgiveness of sins. There is no wall that can prevent Him from hearing our prayers as long as we repent, do His will, and call upon Him with faith and a broken heart. The main skill to have in prayer is a broken heart, which includes: a broken heart, a broken spirit, tears, being humble and  refraining from revenge.
 
Prayer is a special tool through which we communicate with God. For this, we only need a broken heart, and we are not required to have a special speech style like we do when talking to a person. Nor do we have to explain the matter from beginning to end as He knows what we need more than we do. (Romans 1:27) If we speak to him with a pure heart, at any moment, God will listen to our prayers. God doesn't say, "I can't talk to you now, come back another time." He is always near to hear us the moment we come to talk to him.
 
In fact, the basis of prayer is the word of God: "Ask and it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock and it will be opened to you." (Matthew 7:7) Prayer is one of the rituals commanded by God. It includes worship, supplication, repentance, intercession, worship, love, vows and forgiveness.
 
As written in Genesis 2:7, God created man and breathed into him the breath of life through his mouth, and he became a living soul.  This living soul thirsts for God. The means for this is prayer. In the prayer, there is religion or believing and trusting. As St. John the Baptist taught us the art of prayer, a person who knows how to communicate with God and communicates with God in the right way will become like an angel from that moment on. No matter how noble or slave or ordinary or lowly or even a king a person is,  this is how the soul is freed from the shackles of the flesh, this is how the conscience is elevated, this is how our abode crosses to heaven, this is how a person despises worldly conduct, this is how one stands before the throne. Through a proper way of Prayer. For God does not look at the beauty of speech or the eloquence of words, but the purity of the spirit. Even if we come with a broken and pure heart and faith, and say what comes to our mind, we will get reply. It is said that "Your heavenly Father knows what you need without asking."
 
After all, the main purpose of prayer is communion with God, so there is no ritual without prayer. In every liturgy there is prayer. It can be said that all the good deeds that people do are prayers. Fathers and scholars say that prostration, almsgiving, repentance, pursuing spiritual education, etc. are classified as prayer. Therefore, when we say that a person prayed, we understand that he begged, thanked, sang, promised, repented, and talked with God. It is inevitable that human beings will offer thanks and praise to the God whom they worship: saying feed me, protect me  from evil and suffering.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2558 | date:2024-04-07T23:06:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

👉About Prayer (Part 2)

We have mentioned that prayer is a special spiritual tool to connect with God. For this to happen, our relationship with God must be continuous and constant. We should adhere to God's commandments and observe fasts in religion and morals. This is why we are commanded to "pray without ceasing" (1 Thessalonians 5:17, Colossians 4:2, Luke 18:1, 21:36, Romans 12:12).

As mentioned in the holy preface of the Gospel and preserved for us in tradition by the Father, before Satan misled Eve, he tried to tempt our father Adam. But when he approached Adam, he found him engrossed in prayer and could not deceive him. Later, when Satan approached Eve at six o'clock in the afternoon, he found her idle and used that vulnerability to deceive her. Therefore, Satan, our arch-enemy, does not rest even for a moment from tempting and misleading us by exploiting our weaknesses. That is why we should not separate from prayer to be able to resist him. As Jesus Christ said, "Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest you enter into temptation" (Luke 22:46).

In the spiritual teachings of our church, prayer is a continuous ritual of worship. "Pray without ceasing, give thanks in all things, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you" (1 Thessalonians 5:17-18). Jesus Christ also taught the apostles that we can cast out demons through fasting and prayer (Matthew 16:20). Satan, who knows this very well, tempts us to stay away from prayer by making us lazy and distracting us. Once he has us in his grasp, he makes us forget to pray when we become comfortable with him. Therefore, as our Lord told us, we should all wake up and pray constantly.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2561 | date:2024-04-08T23:02:04 ---
👉 About the #fear of God 

Question፦ Psalm 2:11 “Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling” 

What does it mean to fear the Lord ? Are we supposed to be scared or is it about having respect / reverence. Or is it the type of fear where we know our lives and destiny is in His hands and how we should do good in fear so we don’t end up in hell?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, your inquiry touches upon a profound aspect of our spiritual journey—understanding the fear of the Lord. In the Orthodox tradition, this concept is not about terror or dread, but rather a deep reverence and awe for God, acknowledging His infinite holiness and majesty. It is the beginning of wisdom, as Solomon the Wise proclaims in Proverbs 9:10, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of the Holy One is understanding." This fear is a form of love, a recognition of God’s omnipotence and our desire to live in harmony with His will.

It is indeed a respectful fear, one that compels us to turn away from sin and embrace a life of virtue, not out of terror of punishment, but out of love and a desire not to grieve our Heavenly Father. It’s a call to remember that our actions in this life echo into eternity, shaping our relationship with the Divine.

This reverence is nurtured through prayer, participation in the sacraments, and living a life in accordance with the teachings of Christ and His Church. It is about cultivating a heart that is sensitive to the presence of God in all aspects of our lives, leading us to act justly and love mercy.

As you contemplate this reverence for the Lord, ask yourself: How can I cultivate a deeper sense of awe and love for God in my daily life? How might this reverent fear guide me to live in closer communion with Him and His creation?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance

Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2562 | date:2024-04-08T23:03:01 ---
👉🏾 About #choosing God over the world

Question፦ How does a person commitment their life to God & choose Him over the world? 

What does a person who has submitted His life to God look like?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

Your inquiry touches the very essence of our journey towards the Kingdom of Heaven. To commit one's life to God and choose Him over the world is to embark on a path of transformation, guided by faith, prayer, and the Sacraments of the Church.

The Scripture illuminates this path in Matthew 6:33, "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." This verse encapsulates the heart of commitment to God: prioritizing His will above all earthly concerns, trusting that He will provide for your needs.

A person who has submitted his life to God is often recognized by the fruits of the Spirit manifest in their life, as outlined in Galatians 5:22-23 — love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. These qualities emerge not from human effort alone but through cooperation with the grace of God, allowing His Spirit to transform us from within.

Engaging in regular prayer, fasting, partaking of the Holy Eucharist, and confession are not mere rituals but means of grace, helping us to draw nearer to God and detach from worldly desires. Through these practices, guided by a spiritual father or mother, we learn to discern God's voice and His will for our lives.

Remember, dear one, that this journey is not a solitary endeavor. The Church offers us a community of faith, a spiritual family, to support and uplift us as we walk this path together.

Now, I ask you, what step will you take today to draw closer to God and seek His kingdom above all else?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2565 | date:2024-04-10T21:45:02 ---


--- id:2566 | date:2024-04-10T21:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Mount_of_Olives; the Fourth week of the #Great #Lent

In the quiet sanctity of the Lenten season, as the world draws closer to the solemnity of Holy Week, the Church turns its contemplation toward the Mount of Olives, a site of immense spiritual significance, not only for its historical ties to the final days of our Lord Jesus Christ on Earth but as a beacon that illumines the profound mysteries of His second coming. In this hallowed week, termed "Mount of Olives" in the liturgical calendar, we are invited to meditate on the eschatological events that shall precede and encompass the return of Christ, the Judge of all, in glory and majesty.

As the sun sets over the ancient city of Jerusalem, casting elongated shadows from the olive trees, our minds are transported back to that pivotal moment when Christ, seated on this very mount, imparted to His disciples the knowledge of the end times, intertwining warnings with promises, terror with hope. It is a scene charged with the gravity of impending judgment, yet radiant with the promise of ultimate redemption for the faithful.

The imagery employed to depict the second coming is both vivid and veiled, a tapestry woven from the threads of divine revelation and human apprehension. Christ's return will be heralded by signs that eclipse the splendors and terrors of nature: a day when the celestial bodies falter in their courses, when the very elements seem to unravel, heralding the advent of the King of kings. The dead, both great and small, shall rise from their graves in a resurrection that knows no distinction of status or wealth, for in that moment, all humanity stands equal before the throne of God. The books shall be opened, those tomes of divine justice, wherein every deed, word, and thought are inscribed, awaiting the unfailing judgment of the Almighty.

This scene of judgment, as revealed through sacred scripture and tradition, transcends mere metaphor. It is a divine mystery that penetrates the core of our being, urging us to a life of holiness and vigilance. The Mount of Olives discourse serves not merely as a prophetic forecast but as a moral compass, guiding the faithful through the tempests of temporal life toward the harbor of eternal salvation.

The parable of the sheep and the goats, as recounted by Christ, encapsulates the essence of divine judgment. It is a delineation of destiny based not on the capriciousness of fate but on the concrete realities of moral choices and actions. The righteous, likened to sheep, are those who have embodied the virtues of the Gospel, extending love, compassion, and mercy to the least of their brethren. Their reward is a share in the eternal kingdom, a realm where suffering, sorrow, and death no longer hold sway. Conversely, the wicked, represented by goats, are those who turned away from the light of divine love, ensnared by the illusions of sin and selfishness. Their lot is separation from the source of all goodness, an exile as profound as it is self-imposed.

Yet, amidst these reflections on judgment and destiny, the Church, following the example of Christ, calls not for despair but for hope and transformation. The Lenten journey, especially as it converges upon the week of the Mount of Olives, is an invitation to introspection, repentance, and renewal. It is a time to shed the garments of sin that shroud the soul, to embrace the light of Christ that seeks to illumine every heart.

In this sacred season, let us then ascend in spirit to the Mount of Olives, there to keep watch with Christ in the garden of our hearts. May we be found vigilant in faith, steadfast in hope, and abounding in love when the Son of Man comes in His glory, accompanied by all His angels. Let us pray that, by His grace, we may be counted among the righteous, who will inherit the kingdom prepared from the foundation of the world, where tears are wiped away, and joy is everlasting.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2567 | date:2024-04-10T21:48:01 ---
(Continued)☝️

Thus, as we traverse the solemn path of Lent, let our gaze be fixed not only on the tribulations of the present but on the promise of the new Jerusalem, descending from heaven, adorned as a bride for her husband. In this divine vision lies our hope, our inspiration, and our ultimate destination.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2575 | date:2024-04-14T21:45:31 ---
👉 About the Malk of St. #Mary and the Malk of our Lord and Savior #Jesus Christ 

👉🏾Question፦ Hello. What is the significance and importance of the Gate of Light for the praises of St. Mary? What is the significance and importance of the Malk of St. Mary and the Malk of Jesus?

Answer፦ Greetings in the peace of Christ. Your inquiry touches upon profound aspects of our faith that elevate the heart to God through the veneration of His saints, notably the Theotokos, St. Mary.

The "Gate of Light" within the context of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church refers to a liturgical hymn, part of the larger corpus sung during the midnight praises in honor of St. Mary. This hymn illuminates her role as the gate through which the True Light, Christ, entered into the world. As proclaimed in the Gospel of John, "The true light that gives light to everyone was coming into the world" (John 1:9). This hymn, therefore, emphasizes the Theotokos as a pivotal figure in our salvation history through whom divine grace entered into our temporal condition.

Regarding the "Malk of St. Mary" and the "Malk of Jesus," these refer to the respective praises and services dedicated to St. Mary and Jesus. In the tradition of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, a "Malk" is a spiritual song or service of praise. The Malk of St. Mary involves prayers, hymns, and readings that extol her virtues and her role in the mystery of the Incarnation. The Malk of Jesus, similarly, is focused on Christ Himself, praising His divine actions and His human life, from His miraculous birth to His redemptive Passion. These services deepen our connection to the divine through the veneration of Mary, who is always pointing us to her Son, and to Christ Himself as our Savior.

These practices are not just acts of devotion but are deeply transformative, guiding the faithful towards a life reflective of Christ's love and Mary's obedience. Engaging with these praises allows one to enter into a spiritual rhythm that sanctifies time and elevates the soul towards God.

Now, dear questioner, how might you incorporate these beautiful traditions of praise into your daily walk with Christ to deepen your faith and draw nearer to the Light of the World?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2576 | date:2024-04-14T22:39:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Women in the Church 

👉🏾 Question፦ 1) Can girls drink Holy water when they are on their period? & why are they not allowed to go inside the church? 

2) Is labor pain related to the curse after the fall?

Answer፦ Greetings in the love of our Lord,

Your questions touch on significant aspects of our faith and tradition, which illuminate the profound wisdom of the Orthodox Church.

1) In Orthodox tradition, all faithful, regardless of their physical condition, can partake of Holy Water. Holy Water, blessed by the grace of God, is for the healing of soul and body and does not discriminate based on natural bodily processes. As for attending the Church, traditional customs vary, but the essence lies in the preparation and state of one’s heart. In some traditions, women refrain from receiving Communion during their menstrual period, a practice rooted more in historical cultural contexts than in doctrinal necessity. The important thing is the attitude of prayer and reverence towards the sacred mysteries.

St. John Chrysostom once said, "It is not the place that adorns the person, but the person that adorns the place." (Homilies on the Statues, Homily XX) The focus should always be on our inner disposition and our relationship with God.

2) Concerning labor pains, indeed, they are related to the narrative of the fall in Genesis. The Scriptures tell us, "I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing; in pain you shall bring forth children" (Genesis 3:16). This passage reflects the consequences of the original sin affecting humanity, including the introduction of pain in childbirth. Yet, in every suffering, there is a potential for spiritual growth and deeper reliance on God's grace. Pain, when united with Christ’s suffering, can become a source of spiritual strength and renewal.

As you continue to reflect on these aspects of our faith, consider how the practices and teachings of the Orthodox Church can guide you to a deeper relationship with Christ. What steps will you take to deepen your understanding and experience of our faith?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2577 | date:2024-04-15T21:31:23 ---


--- id:2578 | date:2024-04-15T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Communion 

👉What is the Holy Communion?

👉What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion?

👉Who founded the Holy Communion?

👉Why is the Holy Communion called a Mystery?

👉Who is worthy of the Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do before receiving Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do when we receive Holy Communion?

👉What are major points we need to understand before receiving it?

👉What precautions should we take after receiving Holy Communion?

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the questions on the topic above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.


About the Holy Communion, its Origin and the ceremony

According to the canon of our Church, the Holy Eucharist (Qurban) is one of the seven sacraments of the Church. Qurban is a Surist and Greek (Arabic) word that means blessing, gift of money, knowledge, labor and time. In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.
 
In the Old Testament era, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called 'sacrifice', 'communion'.
 
But in the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile himself with mankind. Therefore, the sacrament means the perfect body and blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior, the Lamb of God.

It is our God, our Savior, Jesus Christ, who founded the sacrament of the Holy Communion. And the day he started the system is the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. When our savior established this great system and secret, only his twelve disciples were with him, and he did not reveal it to all the people who were following him as before. This is the reason why the Church still presents it with a veil and honor. When our Lord was sacrificed on the cross, in order to cover Him, the sun was dark the moon was covered with blood and the stars dropped down like withered fruit like chilies . Even the angels of heaven dare not touch the sacrifice, for this is given only to the priests.
 
The Holy Communion is called a mystery. Our Lord Jesus Christ took the bread, blessed it, consecrated it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "This is my flesh." Therefore, it is a great mystery that the bread is changed into the flesh of God the Son  (the flesh of God) and the wine is the blood of God the Son  (blood of God), that is why it is called the mystery. (Matthew 26:26, Mark 14:22) Even today, the priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat, and they prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread into the flesh of God and the wine into the blood of God, the authority of the priest, the word of God, and through the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God) and the wine into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God). This makes the Holy Communion a mystery because it is hidden from the unbeliever, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. In addition, visible service is given the secret of invisible grace.
 
Major Points that we need to understand before receiving Holy Communion
 
- We must believe without doubt that the bread and wine are changed into the body and blood of Jesus Christ. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body..this is my blood, drink. (Matthew 26:26)

(Part 2 to be continued )👇

--- id:2579 | date:2024-04-15T21:36:01 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  2 (Cont'd)

- It is necessary to believe that the Holy Communion is given to heal the stain of sin and to heal the wound of sin. He said, "Drink of it, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.'" (Matthew 26:27)

- It must be acknowledged that it leads to eternal life. "Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day" (John 6:53).
 
- All those who partake of the Holy Communion must believe that Christ is with them, that they live together with Christ, that His flesh is united with their flesh, and their blood is united with His blood, and that their God is united with them by grace. (He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives with me, and I live in him" (John 6:56).

- It is necessary to repent from past sins, confess, return and guard against future sins. "After that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God." (Mark 1:14) The Kingdom of God refers to His Holy Body and His Precious Blood.
 
- There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion. From the day we were baptized on the 40th and 80th day after birth, where by we become being children of God and received the Holy Communion, we should not stay away from the Holy Communion since then until the end of our lives. It is a great mistake to think of youth as sinfulness in itself or a life unfit for the sacrament, and to think that we should  receive only in infancy and youth. There is no set age for approaching the Holy Communion and not approaching. The only thing that keeps us away from the Holy Communion is if we are highly involved in a particular sin and that we still do now and then being unable stop it. We should take a gap and and make sure to be committed to stop that particular sin first.  Unbelief should not be admitted to sin without repentance. "And now, says the Lord, return to me with all your hearts, fasting, weeping and wailing" (Acts 2:12).
 
 
- Husband and wife should receive Holy Communion together at the first time. If a husband and wife have not received the sacrament together before, it is not allowed for them to receive it separately or one side alone. But after they once received it together, they have already confirmed their unity in flesh and spirit, they can be receive separately. 
 
- In general, because our salvation Jesus Christ died for all, it is a wrong attitude to take the difference between married and single, race, color, sex and age. A person should live by receiving Holy Communion from his childhood until he gets married, when he gets married (together with his husband/wife), and after marriage until his death.
 
Points We  Need to know upon Preparation to receive Holy Communion
 
 
1.       Prepare with absolute faith. We should believe that what we receive is the holy body and precious blood of our Lord, who died on the cross of Calvary on Friday for the world's salvation. In addition, we should strengthned our belive saying to our self :- " I will find forgiveness through repentance for the sins I committed; I will find the strength to be protected from future sins, Christ is in me and I will live in Christ, I will find eternal salvation, I will be protected from a sick body and a sick soul." Saying this, we need to prepare with complete faith and always repent from sin before being anointed and prepare to receive it with faith.
 
(Part 2 to be continued)👇

--- id:2580 | date:2024-04-15T21:39:01 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  3 (Cont'd)

2.       If those receiving Holy Communion are married, they should abstain from sexual intercourse for 3 days before receiving Holy Communion. Sexual intercourse on permitted days in marriage is not a sin, but since it is an act of the flesh , so this period is also one of the forbidden days in terms of giving respect to the sacrament.
 
3.       Anyone who repents and is freed from his sins should keep his heart away from revenge and his body away from wrongdoing.

4.       In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food and water, and wait until the feeling of food being removed from the stomach.

5.       If one sees inappropriate dreams, they will not receive Holy Communion that day. Also, if there is bleeding on anypart of a body, bleeding wound,  or if vomited, or if flys like a mosquito bite entered our the mouth or nose, it is not possible to receive on that day.

6. On the eve of the day we plan to receive Holy Communion, we should take a bath and clean what we wear.

7. Before starting the mass, it is necessary to attend the church and properly follow /consecrate the mass. We should be present before Liturgy starts, and ideally attend the services before that as well. 

8. A woman should  not receive until 7th days of her menstruation. Then she washes her body and can receives on the 8th day or after then. Also at the time of childbirth she does not receive it until he day of the Christening of the child. "If a woman gives birth, it means 80 days, if she gives birth to a boy, it means 40 days" (Leviticus 12:1-5)

Points we need to know when we present at Church to receive Holy Communion

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:2583 | date:2024-04-17T22:30:36 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About post #Eucharist #Traditions in Ethiopian Orthodoxy

Question፦ I wanted to ask another culture-centered question if you don't mind. How come I hear a huge emphasis on what the faithful should do after taking the Eucharist? It's so emphasized I have had a priest tell me it's a sin for me to break these rules that requires confession

Example of Rules:
1. Don't touch water
2. Don't spit
3. You cannot sweat or play
4. You cannot cry
etc.

Answer፦ In the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, the guidelines and traditions following the reception of the Holy Eucharist are deeply embedded in our liturgical and spiritual life, emphasizing the sanctity of the sacrament.

When an Ethiopian Orthodox Christian partakes of the Holy Eucharist, it is believed that they receive Christ Himself. Given the profound holiness of this act, the faithful are taught to remain in a state of purity post-communion as long as the Body and Blood of Christ are present within them. The guidelines you mentioned—such as not touching water, not spitting, avoiding physical exertion, and not crying—are cultural practices specific to Ethiopian Orthodoxy, designed to honor the presence of Christ within us and to avoid any act that might seem to expel or disrespect the Holy Gifts.

These practices are not ends in themselves but are disciplines that help the faithful to maintain a prayerful and contemplative state after receiving the Eucharist. They serve to cultivate a deep, ongoing awareness of God's immediate presence and to extend the sacredness of the liturgical experience into daily life. As St. John Chrysostom teaches, "Let us return from that Table like lions breathing out fire, having become terrible to the devil, thinking of our Head [Christ] and the love He has shown for us... This Blood makes the image of our King to be freshly painted in us, produces beauty unspeakable, permits not the beauty to fade, but refreshes it continually, when it is about to be destroyed."

However, it's crucial to understand that the Church's canonical law does not specifically prescribe these as absolute requirements; rather, they are traditions that have been upheld by the faithful over centuries. It is essential for those who find these practices burdensome or confusing to speak with their spiritual father. A spiritual guide can provide personalized guidance and help distinguish between essential ecclesiastical mandates and beneficial cultural traditions.

Given your interest in these practices, might I suggest further exploring how they might enhance your reverence and love for the Eucharist, guiding you to a deeper communion with our Lord Jesus Christ? What ways do you feel called to honor this sacred gift in your daily walk with Christ? 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2584 | date:2024-04-18T01:30:01 ---


--- id:2585 | date:2024-04-18T01:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Guebre_Hère; the fifth week of the #Great #Lent 

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, as we dwell upon the teachings of the fifth week of Lent, known reverently as Guebre Hère, let us immerse ourselves in the profound insights of the Parable of the Talents, as rendered in the Gospel according to Saint Matthew, chapter 25, verses 14 through 30. This parable, bestowed upon us by our Lord Jesus Christ, is a beacon of spiritual guidance, particularly during this penitential season.

In this sacred parable, a man, about to journey afar, entrusts his property to his servants. To one he grants five talents, to another two, and to another one, each according to his unique ability. Upon his return, he assesses what has been achieved with his assets. The servants who received five and two talents respectively, engage diligently in their tasks, each doubling what was entrusted to them, and are thus richly praised and rewarded: "Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master." The servant who received one talent, however, out of fear, conceals his talent in the earth and is severely reproached and expelled into the darkness.

From this narrative, essential truths unfold:

1. Divine Entrustment of Capacities: The master distributes talents in alignment with the servant's abilities, mirroring how our Heavenly Father endows us with spiritual gifts tailored to our capacities. Each of us is given specific talents, meticulously aligned with divine intent and purpose, as Saint Paul articulates in his letter to the Corinthians.

2. The Imperative of Stewardship: The expectation of the master that the talents be not merely preserved but augmented underscores our duty to enhance and amplify the gifts bestowed upon us. These gifts, both spiritual and temporal, are granted not for idleness but for active and fruitful multiplication in God’s service.

3. Accountability before God: The master’s return and settlement of accounts with his servants highlight the unavoidable truth of divine judgment. Each of us must live with the awareness that we shall stand before God to account for our stewardship, urging us to live each day with zeal and commitment to His divine will.

4. Reward for the Diligent: The master’s generous commendation of the faithful servants exemplifies God's boundless grace towards those who labor earnestly in His vineyard. The joy promised by the master symbolizes the eternal happiness that awaits the righteous, a reward infinitely surpassing earthly pleasures.

5. The Consequence of Neglect: The chastisement of the servant who hid his talent is a stern admonition against negligence and fear. We are called to act boldly, employing our talents in the propagation of faith and spiritual advancement, rather than succumbing to fear or complacency.

Let us, therefore, brothers and sisters, draw inspiration from the essence of Guebre Hère, the exemplar who maximized the potential of what was entrusted to him. Let us introspect on our own talents, whether they be of spiritual insight, material means, intellectual acumen, or relational capacities, and consider how we might employ these gifts for the greater glory of God and the betterment of humanity.

May this contemplation on the Parable of the Talents embolden us to be like Guebre Hère, wisely and vigorously investing in the gifts we have received. Let us shun the path of the fearful servant and aspire to hear those blessed words from our Lord, "Well done, good and faithful servant... Enter into the joy of your master."

In this sacred season of reflection, may our hearts be stirred to fuller dedication and purpose, ever mindful of the watchful gaze of our Savior, who measures our faithfulness in the stewardship of His gifts. For it is in these faithful endeavors that we sow the seeds of our eternal felicity in the kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2586 | date:2024-04-18T01:33:02 ---
(Continued)☝️

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2590 | date:2024-04-18T22:01:51 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About post #Eucharist #Traditions in Ethiopian Orthodoxy

Question፦ I never thought about it like that 🤔. The rules seems very forced upon the laity that it seems legalistic, removing the freedom the honor the gift individually.

I guess I would want to 2 more questions:
1. Could you dive into the dietary restrictions in Ethiopia? Ive also been told its a sin to not follow the restrictions 

2. How do we as a Church balance culture and Orthodoxy? I've seen too often where culture has been enforced as a legalistic weapon rather than a freedom of expression. But I also know that culture is also a means of unity in a community. What are your thoughts?

Answer፦ Dear Nathan,

Your reflections bring to light the essential tension between tradition and personal spiritual freedom—a core concern for many in their journey of faith. Let's explore your questions one by one.

1. Dietary Restrictions in Ethiopian Orthodoxy:
   In Ethiopian Orthodox practice, dietary rules are primarily observed during fasting periods, which are numerous throughout the year, including prominent fasts such as the Great Lent, the Apostles' Fast, the Assumption Fast, and the Advent Fast. During these times, the faithful abstain from all animal products, including meat, dairy, and eggs, adhering instead to a vegan diet. This discipline is seen not merely as dietary but as a spiritual exercise to strengthen one’s spirit by the voluntary weakening of the flesh.

   These fasting rules are deeply rooted in Scripture and tradition. As Genesis 2:17 teaches, “But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.” This passage underlines the idea of abstaining for the sake of spiritual health. It is important, however, to recognize that while the Church prescribes these fasts for the spiritual benefit of the community, individual circumstances such as health, age, and life situation (e.g., pregnancy, travel) can necessitate adjustments, which should be discussed with one's spiritual father.

2. Balancing Culture and Orthodoxy:
   The interplay between culture and faith is indeed profound. Culture can both enrich and challenge the practice of Orthodoxy. The key to balancing them lies in discernment and the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Cultural practices become problematic when they overshadow the core doctrines of the faith or impose unnecessary burdens on the faithful. As the Apostle Paul instructs us, "All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient" (1 Corinthians 6:12). This principle guides us to embrace cultural expressions that uplift and unite the faithful in Christ while being wary of those that may lead to division or spiritual harm.

   In practice, this balance is achieved through the living tradition of the Church—its liturgical life, canonical regulations, and the pastoral guidance provided by its bishops and priests, who are tasked with interpreting these in light of the Gospel. A healthy community life in the Church often reflects a harmonious blend where culture serves the higher goals of the faith, promoting a unity that does not stifle individual expression but rather celebrates it within the framework of Orthodox life.

Your insightful questions suggest a deepening engagement with these aspects of our faith. How might you continue to explore these intersections in your own life, and how can this exploration enhance your spiritual growth and participation in the community?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2601 | date:2024-04-20T22:00:58 ---
👉 About #Dietary restrictions in the EOTC.

👉🏾 Question፦ Thank you again for your answer. Forgive my unclarity as I meant dietary restrictions such as not eating pork. I've had a priest tell me eating any of the unclean food in Deuteronomy would be a sinful act

Answer፦ Dear Nathan,

Thank you for your patience and for guiding our conversation to deeper understanding. Your points regarding the continuity of certain practices in Ethiopian Orthodoxy illuminate how tradition and transformation are deeply woven into our spiritual life.

Indeed, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church has a unique historical context, having practiced Judaism before the introduction of Christianity. This historical depth contributes to certain dietary practices, like abstaining from pork, which have been maintained even after the acceptance of Christianity. This continuity is not merely a matter of cultural preference but a testament to the Church's understanding of spiritual progression—from physical to spiritual, from old to new in Christ.

The Church Fathers, in their wisdom, often retained certain practices that they believed would help the faithful grow spiritually. As you noted, these practices are seen as aids in the journey from a life dominated by the flesh to one led by the Spirit. The decision to maintain such practices is grounded in their potential to foster spiritual transformation and discipline, reflecting the Church’s role in guiding the faithful through gradual sanctification.

It's also important to recognize, as you pointed out, that these practices are not rigidly imposed on new converts from different cultural backgrounds. This flexibility underscores the Church's universal mission and the adaptability of the Orthodox faith to diverse cultural contexts, always with the aim of bringing all into a deeper communion with Christ.

Your engagement with these issues suggests a deep commitment to understanding the interplay between culture, tradition, and spiritual growth. How might this understanding continue to shape your journey in the faith, and how can it help you to live out the transformative power of the Gospel in your own life and community?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2602 | date:2024-04-20T22:03:01 ---
👉 About guidance from #spiritual #father 

👉🏾 Question፦ Also, my previous priest would tell me it was a sin to break the post Eucharist cultural traditions (such as touching water) and was something I needed to confess. If our spiritual father mistakes cultural traditions as doctrines or dogmas, is that perhaps a sign to get another spiritual father that is perhaps more knowledgeable about Orthodoxy?

👉 Answer፦ Dear Nathan,

Your concerns about the boundaries between cultural traditions and ecclesiastical doctrine are very valid and reflect a desire for a pure and undiluted practice of Orthodoxy. The role of a spiritual father is indeed pivotal, providing guidance and interpretation of the Church's teachings and traditions. It is crucial that this guidance be deeply rooted in the authentic teaching and spiritual wisdom of the Church.

If you find that certain practices, particularly those that are culturally rather than doctrinally based, are being enforced as if they were dogmatic or doctrinal requirements, it is important to seek clarification. The Church, in its wisdom, differentiates between tradition (which can be culturally specific) and dogma (which is universally applicable and doctrinally sound). When cultural traditions are mistakenly presented as dogma, it can lead to confusion and spiritual burden.

Approaching your spiritual father for a dialogue is a recommended first step. Express your concerns respectfully and ask for clarification on the teachings. If after such discussions, you continue to feel that the guidance you are receiving does not align with the broader, universal teachings of Orthodoxy, or it leads to spiritual distress rather than growth, it may be appropriate to seek additional perspectives. Consulting with another knowledgeable and experienced clergy member can provide a broader understanding and help affirm whether your spiritual concerns are being adequately addressed.

The relationship with a spiritual father should be one that fosters spiritual growth, understanding, and a deeper connection with the teachings of the Church. If you consistently feel that your spiritual needs and quest for Orthodox truth are not being met, it may indeed be prudent to consider finding a spiritual guide who can better support your journey.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2607 | date:2024-04-21T22:00:44 ---


--- id:2609 | date:2024-04-21T22:33:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson on #Nicodemus: The Seventh Week of Great Lent

.This week, often referred to by the Orthodox Tewahedo Church as "Nicodemus," is an opportune time to delve into the spiritual and theological implications of his encounters with Christ as detailed in the Gospel of John.

Nicodemus, a Pharisee and a member of the Sanhedrin, appears thrice in the Gospel of John, signifying stages of his spiritual journey and enlightening us on the path of true discipleship. His nocturnal visit to Jesus, as recounted in John 3, opens a profound dialogue on rebirth and the Kingdom of God, revealing the depth of Nicodemus's inquiry and his yearning for truth amidst a time of great religious complexity and expectation.

The Context of Nicodemus's Inquiry

The night, often a symbol of obscurity and confusion in biblical texts, here illustrates the initial spiritual condition of Nicodemus—a man shrouded in the darkness of incomplete understanding yet seeking the light of Christ’s wisdom. His approach to Jesus under cover of darkness signifies not only a literal but a metaphorical seeking: an exploration from the shadows of ritual and law into the luminosity of grace and truth.

Rebirth and the Kingdom of God

In his dialogue with Jesus, Nicodemus grapples with the concept of being "born again," a fundamental tenet for any who wish to see the kingdom of God. This discourse is not merely doctrinal but deeply transformative, as it challenges the very paradigms through which Nicodemus has understood the world. Jesus’s explanation of spiritual rebirth—as essential as it is mysterious—highlights the transformative power of the Holy Spirit, who, like the wind, moves invisibly and unpredictably, conferring new life to those born of water and Spirit.

The Development of Faith

The subsequent mentions of Nicodemus in John 7 and John 19 show a man in transition, moving from cautious curiosity to a more courageous, albeit discreet, discipleship. In John 7, Nicodemus defends Jesus’ right to a fair hearing under the law, risking his reputation amongst his peers. By John 19, he assists in Jesus’ burial, an act of quiet defiance and devotion, signaling his embrace of the path of discipleship, regardless of its cost.

Spiritual Implications for the Faithful

1. The Journey from Darkness to Light: Nicodemus’s journey encourages the faithful to move from the shadows of ritual compliance and societal expectation into the transformative light of personal spiritual experience. It teaches us that faith is not static but dynamic, evolving from questioning to understanding, from hearing to doing.

2. The Courage to Seek Truth: Despite his high status and the potential for significant personal loss, Nicodemus shows us the importance of seeking truth, even when it means standing alone. This courage to challenge prevailing orthodoxies and embrace new teachings is pivotal for personal spiritual growth.

3.The Humility to Learn and Grow: Nicodemus, a teacher of Israel, submits himself as a student in the spiritual kingdom where Jesus is the master. His example reminds us that true wisdom often begins with the acknowledgment of what we do not know, and that humility is a vessel for divine revelation.

4. The Witness to Faith through Actions: The actions of Nicodemus, especially in the burial of Christ, demonstrate that true faith is not merely professed but practiced. In risking defilement and disgrace to give Jesus a proper burial, Nicodemus embodies the sacrificial nature of love and loyalty that characterizes genuine discipleship.

As we reflect on Nicodemus this Lent, let us consider our own journey towards Christ. Are we seekers of truth, willing to step out from the comfort of our understandings and positions to learn anew at the feet of Jesus? Are we ready to be born again, not just of water, but of the Spirit, to enter into a life transformed by divine grace?

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2610 | date:2024-04-21T22:36:01 ---
(Continued) ☝️

Let us walk in the steps of Nicodemus, moving from night into day, from query to faith, and from solitude to the sacred community of the church. May our journey through Lent lead us into the bright dawn of Pascha, reborn and renewed in the image of Christ. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2621 | date:2024-04-22T21:30:01 ---
👉 #Clarifications on some #Bible verses 

👉🏾 Question፦ Can you explain how to apply these Bible teachings in daily life:

1. What does being "the salt of the earth" mean in practical terms?
2. Does removing the log from our own eye before judging others mean we should first address our own faults?
3. Does "the measure you give will be the measure you get" suggest that our judgments will be reciprocated?
4. What does striving for God's Kingdom and His righteousness involve, and what should we expect from it?
5. In what way should we ask, knock, and seek in our relationship with God?
6. How can we identify false prophets or insincere people by their "fruits"? 

Could you help clarify these concepts?

Answer፦ Dear seeker of truth,

Your inquiry into these profound scriptures is a commendable pursuit toward deepening your understanding and spiritual growth. Let us explore these verses in light of the Church's teachings.

1. Salt of the Earth: In Matthew 5:13, Christ calls His followers to be "the salt of the earth." This metaphor signifies the indispensable Christian duty to enhance and preserve the moral integrity of the world. If the salt loses its flavor, it symbolizes losing one's spiritual zeal and virtue, becoming ineffective in our Christian witness. Saint John Chrysostom explains this as a dire warning to maintain the strength of our faith and virtue, lest we fail our purpose and are "thrown out and trampled."

2. Removing the Log from Your Own Eye: The verse from Matthew 7:5 indeed suggests that we must first address our own sins and failings before correcting others. This is more than just a practical self-improvement; it is a profound spiritual principle of humility and self-awareness. It reminds us to approach others with compassion rather than judgment, recognizing our own imperfections.

3. Measure of Judgment: In Matthew 7:2, the principle that "with the judgment you pronounce you will be judged" reflects the divine justice that mirrors our own attitudes and actions back to us. It is not akin to karma in its traditional sense but rather a biblical principle that God's judgment upon us corresponds to how we judge others.

4. Seeking the Kingdom of God: Matthew 6:33's call to "strive first for the kingdom of God and His righteousness" is indeed about aligning our lives with God's commandments and embracing a life of virtue. Practically, this means living out the virtues you mentioned—honesty, purity, and faithfulness—trusting that God will provide for our needs according to His will and in His time.

5. Ask, Knock, Seek: These actions in Matthew 7:7 highlight the importance of persistent and active faith. We must not only ask but also seek and knock, showing our commitment and effort in pursuing the things of God. It is a progressive deepening of engagement with God and His promises.

6. By Their Fruits: Finally, in Matthew 7:15-20, discerning "by their fruits" is crucial in evaluating the true character of others, particularly those who claim spiritual authority. True spiritual life manifests in observable virtues—love, joy, peace, and the like. Those consistently exhibiting negative behaviors ("bad fruits") reveal a heart not aligned with God’s ways.

In all these, the overarching theme is that our faith must be lived actively and consciously, reflecting inwardly in our actions and outwardly through our interactions with others. In Orthodoxy, this life is best supported through a relationship with a spiritual father or guide who can help nurture these virtues in us.

What step will you take today to align more closely with these teachings of Christ? May the peace of the Lord guide you on this path.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2638 | date:2024-04-25T23:31:02 ---


--- id:2639 | date:2024-04-25T23:32:03 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Eucharist  
 
(Part 4)

Respected and beloved John's repentant website members, who follow the Orthodox lesson and spiritual counsel  which we serve to provide in a daily basis; It is to be recalled that, we sent a series of sections on the basic points on the subject. Today, we have sent you the next part as follows, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.
 
1.       A person who is not present when the Liturgy begins or who doesn't follow it thoroughly by being present for the whole service is not allowed to receive the Eucharist. Likewise, a priest cannot serve in Liturgy if he isn't present before it starts. Therefore, when we plan to receive the Eucharist, we should make sure to arrive at the church before the Liturgy begins.

2.       It is necessary to focus our thoughts on the Liturgy, approach in fear of God, and most importantly, we should approach in an absolute belief to get salvation for our body and soul in the Holy Eucharist

3.       If you know the prayer to be prayed when you receive Holy Communion, you should say it in heart, or else, we should approach it in the fear of God by thinking repeatedly in our hearts that this is the flesh and blood of Christ. In the same way, when receiving it, you should say 'Amen' once on the body and twice on the blood. (Mass Apostles)

4.       According to the order of the Church, from the bishops to the deacons, to the faithful, everyone receives the Holy Communion in line according to their rank.

5.       Once after receiving the Holy flesh and blood of Jesus Christ, you should drink Holy water. This holy water is served right there for those who received Eucharist, and it represents the water that flowed from our Lord's right side while he was pierced by a spear as he was on the cross.  Then, you should cover your mouth because it helps to remember that we shouldn't discuss earthly things before we eat something (Fit Men 13 Krista 65).

6.       If possible, it is preferable for the receiver of Holy Communion to be accompanied by someone.  But this is not an obligation or a law written by the church, but from the point of view of having someone by his side to help facilitating things so that he does not face challenges. 

8.       Those who do not believe and didn't take lesson about the Holy Communion are forbidden to receive it. So, it is necessary to monitor and control this.  (Ft Men 23 Rasub 44) They should first get a lesson from their church teachers or from their father of repetance about the Mystrery of communion in advance and believe that the sacrament they receive is the flesh and blood of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

9.       If a penitent person falls ill with a fatal illness before completing the period of penance, he is not prevented from receiving the Eucharist. On the other hand, a person who is in the canon of penance cannot receive Holy Communion without finishing the canon he received, unless he is in a life-threatening illness.
 
10.   A person who is tormented by a demon, a sick person, is not prevented from receiving Holy Eucharist. (Ft Men 13)
 
The precautions a Christian should take on the day he receives Holy Communion, and the Christian life he should have in his future life:
 
(Part 5 Continues)👇

--- id:2640 | date:2024-04-25T23:36:03 ---
About the Holy Eucharist  
 
(Part 5)

The precautions a Christian should take on the day he receives Holy Communion, and the Christian life he should have in his future life:
 
1.       On the day a Christian receives Holy Communion, he should not wash his body with water, he should not take off his clothes and be naked, he should not draw blood from his body.
 
2.        He should not do hard work that can cause fluid (sweat) on our body, he should not walk a long way (because this is also considered work).
 
3.       Even if we live in a married life, it is necessary to abstain from sexual intercourse 3 days before receiving Holy Communion and 2 days after receiving Holy Communion. 
 
4.       He should not eat too much, drink intoxicating drinks that disturb what we have eaten and drunk.
 
5.       On the day we received Holy Communion, it is forbidden to cut nails, shave hair, bow and kneel, spit, bathe in water, and change clothes before the end of the day. (Liturgy No. 166) We can change our cloths at the evening after 6:00pm, as it is considered as the next day.

6.       if a person experiences nose bleeding , vomit, bodily bleeding, wounds, and a gnat that enters his mouth by Being careless or due to not taking appropriate care on the day of receiving the Holy Communion,  he should tell this to his penitent  father and  he should repent. And he cannot receive the Holy Communion again without performing his penance.  
 
7.       It is forbidden to go to Court and argue on the day you receive Holy Communion. (Council of Nicaea) In general, one should not go to a public place where there is an argument, argue with someone, talk with hard words, do work that provokes anger, and such other things after communion on that day.
 

8.       Before we receive Holy Communion, we should ask for forgiveness and be cleared of our sins of enmitity and revenge through repetance; and promise not to return back on it. So, now after receiving Holy Communion, we should refreain by far from argument, dispute and grudge. We should  be more committed to stay back from being offended, rebuked, or quarreled with. Even if it happens being out of control, we should ask for forgiveness, let go of grudges, repent and accept it as it should be. Be it from your family or social life, you should stay away from this type of situation as much as possible and spend everything patiently so that you don't have ideas that bring resentment and quarrels. We should live in love with everyone.
 
9.       After receiving Holy Communion, we should refrain from any sinful activity, such as adultery, murder, theft, gossip, addiction, fraud, lying, and the like. 
 
10.   After receiving Holy Communion, it is appropriate to listen to the word of God, go to church regularly, pray, fast, prostrate, and generally live a spiritual life and Christian behavior.

11.   It is necessary for us to have a regular prayer program in our personal life. Because the main spiritual struggle that we can do is through prayer so that Satan does not fight and deprive us of the blessings we have received through the Holy Communion.
 
12.   In general, it is appropriate to know that when we live bounded by the Holy Communion, it is never appropriate to go to a place that is contrary to spiritual life and to associate with a situation that exposes us to sin. We should fight against all the evil temptations and sin.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2641 | date:2024-04-25T23:37:03 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy Eucharist  
 
(Continued)👆

The Precautions and Christian Life a Believer Should Follow Before and After Receiving Holy Communion.

Holy Communion signifies a commitment to follow the Orthodox Church's teachings, which should inspire us to perform good works and acts of charity. It is not a reward, but a means to receive God's grace. Preparation through confession and repentance is crucial before partaking. Holy Communion symbolizes the union between the believer and Christ, affirming our commitment to His teachings.

The main reason why we should approach Holy Communion with spiritual diligence is not because the Son of God, His holy body, or His precious blood can be defiled by anything else, but rather because we are united with His flesh and blood. We must always strive to live in a manner that avoids the obstacles that Satan, who is jealous of our salvation, places in our way to tempt us and lead us into sin. In order to save ourselves from sin, we must participate in the holy ceremony of receiving the flesh and blood of Christ, which we take for our eternal salvation. We must spend our lives in faith and conduct, doing righteous works. Christian vigilance is necessary because Satan often throws subtle obstacles in our way.

If we stumble and fall into sin after receiving Holy Communion, we must repent and confess our sins to the priest. We should stop receiving Holy Communion for the time being, complete our penance, and seek advice and guidance from the priest before resuming Holy Communion. Once we begin to receive Holy Communion, we should avoid sins and offenses that would prevent us from approaching it. If we commit a sin that should not be repeated after receiving Holy Communion, we have dishonored this great sacrament and must repent and work to strengthen our spiritual purpose.

We should not take repentance lightly or assume that we can continue to repeat the same offense. We must strive to control our thoughts and emotions, live steadfastly in morals and faith, and quickly repent if we fall into sin. We must constantly strive to strengthen our spiritual purpose in order not to be separated from the Holy Communion.

In addition, there are certain rituals and beliefs that may be common in some places but are not in accordance with the Church's canon and tradition. When we encounter doubt or confusion, we should seek guidance from the Church fathers, teachers, and scholars to clarify the true teachings of the Church. We should not be led astray by beliefs or practices that are outside of the Church's system. As St. Paul advised Timothy, "Avoid godless chatter, because those who indulge in it will become more and more ungodly" (2 Timothy 2:16).

 
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:2642 | date:2024-04-26T22:01:22 ---
👉 About the virgin #Mary, #Icons and the Holy #Trinity 

👉🏾 Question፦ Mr. Yohannes, what is the history behind St. Mary meaning what did she do in her life that pleased God? To add on to this why do we have so many icons in our church, ecspecially the Icon of our Lord Jesus Christ and St. Mary? Why is there the Trinity 3?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, peace be unto you. It gladdens my heart to address these soul-searching inquiries.

The Blessed Virgin Mary, ever revered as Theotokos (Mother of God), embodies humility and obedience which found favor with God. Her acquiescence to God's will—"Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word" (Luke 1:38)—exemplifies her deep faith and submission. Her life, from the Annunciation to her presence at the Crucifixion and beyond, marks her as a pivotal figure in our salvation history, continually interceding for us as a spiritual mother.

Concerning the icons, they are not mere decorations but windows to the divine, aiding our contemplation and veneration. Each icon is a sacred invitation to enter into a spiritual dialogue with the Holy. As a revered father proclaimed, "The beauty of the images moves me to contemplation, as a meadow delights the eyes and subtly infuses the soul with the glory of God." Hence, icons like those of Christ and St. Mary help focus our worship and reflect the incarnate reality of the Word made flesh.

The Holy Trinity—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit—represents the Christian doctrine of one God in three persons, a profound mystery of our faith that emphasizes the perfect unity and distinctiveness of each Person of the Godhead. This foundational belief shapes all aspects of Orthodox theology and worship.

Now, dear soul, may I ask you to reflect on how the humility of the Theotokos might inspire your own walk with Christ? How can the presence of sacred icons in your daily environment draw you closer to the divine mystery of love that surrounds us?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2643 | date:2024-04-26T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾 About #Forgiveness

👉🏾 Question፦ Does forgiving also mean forgetting what people have done or is it still considered fully forgiving if we remember and use that information to set boundaries. For example, if someone is consistently behaving in certain ways that’s hurtful. Would forgiving the person and loving the person mean we forget it and continue the relationship in the same way. Or would it still be considered forgiving and still maintaining love if i forgive the person, but create some distance and set boundaries to protect myself? (while making sure that i have love in my heart for the person). 

My second question is regarding the teaching of reconciling with others before taking Holy Communion. Does that mean forgiving and asking forgiveness or is it also restoring the relationship back to how it was previously if the level of closeness with the person changed after you set boundaries and distance to protect yourself? Are we expected to be close with the person (even though they continue to hurt us) or is the expectation more about being at peace with the person having forgiven or asked for forgiveness if i’m at fault. 


Thank you 🙏🏾

👉 Answer፦ Dear seeker of truth,

Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Your inquiry touches upon the profound virtues of forgiveness and reconciliation, essential in our walk with Christ and our dealings with one another.

Forgiveness, indeed, is a commandment from the Lord, reflecting His own infinite mercy towards us. As the Lord teaches us in the Gospel of Matthew, "For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you" (Matthew 6:14). To forgive does not necessarily mean to forget, for we are not called to ignore the reality of our hurt. Rather, it is to release the bitterness and the desire for retribution against one who has wronged us. Setting boundaries is a form of wisdom, protecting oneself from recurring harm while still holding love and forgiveness in one's heart. This is well within the teachings of Orthodoxy, which always seeks the safety and well-being of its flock.

Regarding your second question about reconciliation before Holy Communion, the Church teaches us to approach the Holy Sacraments with a heart free of enmity. "Therefore, if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother or sister has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled to them; then come and offer your gift" (Matthew 5:23-24). This reconciliation involves forgiving and seeking forgiveness where necessary. It does not necessarily mandate a restoration of the relationship to its previous state, especially in cases where continual harm occurs. The Church guides us to maintain peace and love in our hearts, even if distance is necessary for personal safety and spiritual well-being.

Reflect upon these teachings, dear child of God, and consider how you might apply them in your relationships. How might you move forward in offering forgiveness and seeking reconciliation while preserving your peace and integrity?

In Christ's love,

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2645 | date:2024-04-27T21:31:37 ---


--- id:2646 | date:2024-04-27T21:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Hosanna: Our Lord's entrance into Jerusalem 

This event, resplendent with profound symbolism and deep theological significance, serves as a pivotal moment in the life of Christ and the narrative of salvation history. Let us delve into the essence of this holy feast, drawing upon the spiritual wisdom and liturgical traditions of the Holy Orthodox Tewahedo Church, to unearth the layers of divine truth embedded within.

The Etymology and Symbolism of Hosanna

Derived from the Hebrew expression "Hosheannah," the term 'Hosanna' resonates with a plea for deliverance: "save us, we pray." This cry for salvation becomes especially poignant as we reflect on its utterance by the multitudes greeting Jesus. As Palm Sunday, the feast commemorates not only a moment of jubilant welcome but also a profound acknowledgment of Jesus as the long-awaited Messiah who comes to deliver His people.

The Liturgical Celebration

The festivity begins on the eve, under the cloak of night, with devout songs rising in the Mahlet, a prelude to the sacred mysteries of redemption that the day commemorates. As dawn breaks, the liturgy intensifies with the deacon's call at the west door, "Arhu Mhotate Mekwanent," imploring the nobles to open the gates of their hearts and the physical doors of the church, symbolizing the opening of oneself to divine grace.

The priest, standing as a mediator between the divine and the earthly, responds with a profound question, "Manu wuetu zentu nge sebhat?" ("Who is the king of thanksgiving?"), to which the response is a declaration of God's sovereignty and mercy. Thus, the liturgy unfolds, deeply imbued with scriptural recitations, psalms, and the blessing of palms, signifying victory and spiritual triumph.

The Entry into Jerusalem: A Fulfillment of Prophecy

As Jesus enters Jerusalem, the scene is laden with symbolic gestures: the riding on a donkey and a colt, the spreading of garments, and the waving of palm branches. These actions are rich in symbolism. The donkey, a humble beast of burden, represents the humble coming of the King of Peace, in stark contrast to a conquering hero on a warhorse. This humility is central to the Christian message, illustrating that the true Kingdom of God is not one of earthly power and domination, but of humility, peace, and service.

The Cleansing of the Temple

One of the most dramatic actions of Jesus during Hosanna is His cleansing of the temple. This act is not merely a critique of commercial activities in a sacred space but a profound reclamation of the temple as a house of prayer. By driving out those who had turned it into a 'den of robbers,' Jesus restores the temple's purpose and, symbolically, redirects the people's focus from transactional religion to transformative spirituality.

Theological Reflections on Hosanna

Hosanna is not just a historical commemoration but a living invitation to each believer to prepare the temple of their hearts for the coming of the King of Mercy. As St. Gregory of Nazianzus, a luminary of the Church, might articulate, this feast challenges us to confront the mercantile exchanges within our own spiritual lives—are we trading divine intimacy for worldly gain?

Implications for the Faithful

In observing Hosanna, the faithful are called to a deeper introspection and renewal of faith. It is a time to acknowledge Christ as the ultimate source of salvation, to lay down our own cloaks of pride and sin, and to take up a posture of humility and obedience. The feast reenacts the welcoming of Jesus into Jerusalem and anticipates His final coming, urging us to readiness and spiritual vigilance.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:2647 | date:2024-04-27T21:36:01 ---
(Continued) ☝️

In conclusion, the feast of Hosanna encapsulates a multifaceted theological and spiritual truth, beckoning the faithful to both celebrate and emulate the humility and sacrificial love of Jesus Christ. Let us, therefore, wave our palm fronds not merely as artifacts of ritual but as emblems of our commitment to follow Christ, our King of Peace and Savior, into the holy city of eternal life. As we chant "Hosanna," let it be with a profound longing for deliverance and a deep joy in the salvation He brings.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:2658 | date:2024-04-30T21:45:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Holy #Wednesday 

On the solemn observance of the Wednesday of Holy Week, known traditionally among the devout as Spy Wednesday, we are called to delve into the profound narrative that unfolds on this day—a narrative rich with betrayal, contemplation, and redemption. Let us endeavor to illuminate these events with a depth and reverence befitting their sacredness, drawing from the wisdom of the early Church Fathers and the Gospels themselves.

The Council of Betrayal

On this day, the Sanhedrin—comprised of chief priests, elders, and scribes, predominantly Sadducees—convened under the heavy air of conspiracy. Led by the high priest Caiaphas, this assembly, numbering seventy-two, was united in their clandestine purpose: to ensnare and ultimately extinguish the Light of the World, our Lord Jesus Christ. This council, named "Siniha Drayum" in their deliberation, represents the epitome of worldly power blinded by its own arrogance and fear, failing to see the divine truth before them. 

The Fragrance of Repentance

In stark contrast to the council’s dark designs, we witness the luminous act of a penitent woman in the house of Simon the Leper (often called Simeon Zelemz). In an outpouring of repentance and adoration, she anoints Jesus with costly perfume, a deed that transcends the mere act—it is a fragrant offering of her entire being unto the Lord. This moment is not just a literal anointing but a spiritual preparation of Christ for His impending Passion and burial.

The Betrayal by Judas

Amid these poignant scenes unfolds the tragic subplot of Judas Iscariot. Despite having been a recipient of Christ’s teachings and miracles, sharing in the blessed bread, and even having his feet washed by Jesus in a display of divine humility, Judas succumbs to the siren call of mammon. For thirty pieces of silver, a sum emblematic of utter contempt in its meagerness, he agrees to betray the Savior. His tragic decision is a harrowing reminder of the perils of avarice, as the love of money ensnares him into a web from which there is no earthly return.

Theological Reflections and Exhortations

Let us consider the gravity of these events. The act of betrayal by Judas is not merely a historical recount; it is a mirror reflecting the potential fall of every soul that dares to value temporal gain over eternal wealth. As the Scripture warns, "What will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul?" (Matthew 16:26). This rhetorical question pierces the conscience, urging a contemplation of one's own fidelity to Christ.

Those who wear the mantle of Christianity must not only shun the example of Judas in avoiding the idolatry of riches but also actively engage in the emulation of the penitent woman. Her act of pouring perfume on Jesus is a metaphor for our own called vocation: to pour out our lives in service and worship, not counting the cost.

As we proceed through the solemnities of this Holy Week, may we do so with a spirit both of reflection and of renewal. May we, like the woman with the alabaster jar, break open our hearts and pour out our love lavishly upon our Lord, who so loved the world that He gave Himself up for it. Let us pray that we are fortified against the corrosive lure of wealth and remain ever mindful of our ultimate calling—to be heirs of an eternal kingdom, not practitioners of temporal avarice.

In this way, may we live not as those who sell the Savior for worldly gain but as those who, with saintly abandon, give all to gain Christ. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:2666 | date:2024-05-02T22:18:07 ---


--- id:2667 | date:2024-05-02T22:18:30 ---


--- id:2668 | date:2024-05-02T22:18:36 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Holy #Thursday

This day, also revered under various titles such as Prayer Thursday, Mystery Day, and Covenant Thursday, marks a pivotal moment in the liturgical year, where the depth of Christ's teachings and His sacrificial love are vividly brought to the forefront of our contemplation.

The Institution of the Holy Eucharist

At the heart of Holy Thursday is the commemoration of the Last Supper, where Jesus Christ, sitting with His disciples, instituted the sacrament of Holy Communion. This moment, captured eloquently in the Gospels, is not merely a historical event but a perpetual gift to the faithful. In the quietude of Lazarus’ house, our Lord took bread and wine, and with blessings pronounced and sanctity bestowed, He transformed these elements into His Body and Blood. “This is my body... This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins” (Matthew 26:26-28). In these acts, Christ did not merely instruct; He established a new covenant, a testament sealed with His sacrificial love, transcending the old sacrifices as foretold and fulfilled the prophecies of redemption.

The Washing of the Feet

In a gesture overflowing with humility and instructional depth, Jesus performed the washing of the feet of His disciples. This act, rich in symbolism and teaching, was a demonstration of the humility and service that should characterize the lives of His followers. When Peter initially resisted, Jesus responded with a profound teaching, “Unless I wash you, you have no part with me” (John 13:8). This statement underscores not only the necessity of receiving Christ but also the call to mutual service and humility. Through this rite, which the Church reenacts on Holy Thursday, believers are reminded of the virtue of humility and the call to serve one another in love, reflecting the servant leadership of Christ Himself.

The Betrayal and the Preparation for the Passion

Holy Thursday also casts a shadow with the anticipation of betrayal. The Gospels recount that during the Last Supper, Jesus soberly revealed that one of the disciples would betray Him, leading to His arrest and Passion. This foretelling is a chilling reminder of the human capacity for sin, even within the proximity of the Savior. The subsequent events of the night, with Jesus praying fervently in the Garden of Gethsemane, demonstrate His fully human experience of distress and His divine submission to the Father’s will. “My Father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. Yet not as I will, but as you will” (Matthew 26:39).

Reflections and Applications

Holy Thursday invites us, then, to a deep meditation on our own discipleship. Are we like Peter, initially resistant but ultimately receptive to the teachings of Christ? Do we recognize the gravity of the Eucharist and approach it with the reverence and contemplation it deserves? Are we prepared to serve and wash the feet of our brothers and sisters, embodying the humility Christ displayed? Moreover, as we recall the betrayal of Judas, we must confront our own betrayals—moments of turning away from Christ—and seek reconciliation through His infinite mercy.

Conclusion: A Call to Holiness and Unity

As we observe the profound mysteries unveiled on Holy Thursday, let us approach this holy day with a renewed spirit of reverence, humility, and love. Let it be a time of deep personal and communal renewal, a reaffirmation of our covenant with Christ, and a preparation for the paschal mystery of His death and resurrection. In these sacred acts and moments, we find the full expression of God’s love and the path laid out for us to follow, leading us ultimately to the freedom and victory of Easter.

May the light of Christ's resurrection illuminate our paths and guide us in our journey of faith. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2669 | date:2024-05-02T22:20:36 ---


--- id:2670 | date:2024-05-02T22:21:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Good #Friday 

In the profound silence that follows the tolling of bells on Good Friday, the hearts of the faithful are drawn to the foot of the Cross at Calvary, where the world's Redeemer—Jesus Christ—offered Himself as the immaculate Lamb. This solemn day, steeped in the deepest mysteries of our faith, is called by many names: Crucifixion Friday, Salvation Day, and most poignantly, Good Friday. Let us delve into the spiritual and theological profundity of this day, exploring its manifold dimensions through the lens of sacred tradition and divine revelation.

The Theological Essence of Good Friday

On this day, the narrative of salvation reaches its apex in the most paradoxical manner: through the apparent defeat on the Cross, victory over sin and death is achieved. The Crucifixion of Christ is not merely an historical event but a transcendent moment where time and eternity intersect, where divine justice and mercy embrace. It is the fulcrum upon which the scales of salvation tip towards grace.

The Trial and Pilate's Inquiry

Before dawn on Good Friday, Jesus, having been betrayed by Judas, endured a series of trials—first at the house of Annas, then Caiaphas, and finally before Pilate. It was here, in the cold indifference of Roman justice, that the innocence of Christ shone most brightly against the dark fabrications of accusation. Pilate himself, ensnared in the complexities of political expediency, famously queried, "What is the crime of this man?"—a question echoing down the corridors of time, compelling us to confront the innocence of the Divine made flesh.

The Scourging and the Crowning with Thorns

The physical torments inflicted upon Jesus are beyond the pale of mere human injustice; they are a cosmic betrayal. The flagellation, punctuated by the haunting count of the blows, and the crowning with thorns are not just Roman cruelties but manifestations of humanity's rebellion against God. Each lash and thorn, a tragic echo of our sins, writ large upon the body of Christ.

The Carrying of the Cross and the Way of Sorrow

The Via Dolorosa—Christ's sorrowful path to Golgotha—is both a literal road in Jerusalem and a spiritual journey into the heart of human suffering. Christ, bearing the cross, traverses this path, falling repeatedly under its weight, an emblem of the burdens of our sins He carries. This journey is not walked in isolation but is a profound invitation to each of us to join in the redemptive suffering of Christ.

The Crucifixion: The Apex of Redemptive Suffering

At Golgotha, the drama of salvation culminates with the nailing of Christ to the cross and His eventual death. Here, the seven last words of Christ offer a window into the breadth of His redemptive mission:

1. "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do."—a divine plea for forgiveness.
2. "Today you will be with me in Paradise."—a promise of salvation.
3. "Woman, behold your son... Behold your mother."—a creation of new familial bonds under the cross.
4. "My God, My God, why have you forsaken me?"—a profound expression of human abandonment and divine mystery.
5. "I thirst."—a statement reflecting physical suffering and a deep yearning for the salvation of souls.
6. "It is finished."—a declaration of the completion of the redemptive act.
7. "Father, into your hands I commend my spirit."—a final act of trust in the Father.

The Cosmic and Eschatological Impact

The moment of Christ's death is marked by cosmic upheavals: darkness covers the land, the veil of the temple is torn, and the earth quakes. These are not merely dramatic effects but theological affirmations of the disruptive, transformative nature of the crucifixion. The tearing of the temple veil signifies the end of the old covenant and the access to the Holy of Holies by all believers through Christ.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2671 | date:2024-05-02T22:25:28 ---
(Continued)☝️

Conclusion: The New Eden

Good Friday invites us to stand at the threshold of the new Eden, the restored paradise where Christ, the new Adam, restores what the first Adam lost. Here, in the shadow of the cross, we find the highest expression of divine love—a love that suffers, forgives, and triumphs over death. As we reflect on the profound mysteries of this day, let us approach the cross not as distant observers, but as participants in the divine drama of redemption, where every heart is called to the foot of the cross, to gaze upon the One who loved us to the end.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2679 | date:2024-05-04T21:52:02 ---
👉 Clarification of a #Bible verse 

👉🏾 Question፦ Philippians 2:1-11 “do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility regard others as better than yourself. Let each of you look not to your own interests, but to the interest of others” 

Can you explain why God would tell us to do this? Why do we need to humble ourselves for God to exalt us? What if we were better in something than someone else should we still regard them as better? Why would we need to exalt others interest above ours? Why can’t it be mutual? Why does Christ chose the lowest position (slave or poverty) when he could have chose to be a regular man with a regular income instead of poverty?

My second question, what would happen to someone if they were to go to a psychic for a reading? Some say Satan will rest on the person as soon as they enter and other say nothing will happen. Is there an immediate consequence or curse that comes on someone who chooses to go to a psychic once or twice for answers because they feel Gods answer is delayed?

Answer፦ Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

The passage from Philippians you cited beckons us to embrace humility, reflecting the very nature of Christ Himself. Saint John Chrysostom, in his homilies on Philippians, elucidates that Christ "emptied Himself" not by putting off His divine nature, but by taking on the form of a servant. This profound act of humility is not just an ethical directive but a transformative journey that aligns us with the divine will. Humbling oneself, therefore, is not about self-deprecation but about ascending to true spiritual nobility. When we consider others better than ourselves, we cultivate a heart of service, reflecting the image of Christ who "came not to be served but to serve" (Matthew 20:28).

As to the matter of talents or superiority in certain aspects, the wisdom of the Desert Fathers offers insight. Abba Dorotheus teaches that humility and the love of God perfect our talents, making us aware that every good gift comes from the Father (James 1:17). Thus, in humility, we recognize our gifts as means to serve others, not as pedestals for self-exaltation.

Regarding exalting the interests of others above our own, this is not a call to negate our own needs but to foster a spirit of generosity. It does not diminish mutual care but elevates it, promoting a community where each one looks after the other, mirroring the early Church (Acts 2:44-47).

Christ chose the lowest position to fully identify with the human condition — to redeem it from within. His choice of poverty is a radical call to spiritual richness, teaching us that true wealth is found in heavenly treasures (Matthew 6:19-21).

Turning to your second question, the Church has consistently warned against seeking guidance from psychics or engaging in any form of divination. Such practices are considered doors opened to deception by malevolent spirits, as they rely on sources apart from God. A revered father of the Church once said "whosoever does not have Christ for his head is inevitably ruled by the devil." Therefore, it's not merely a matter of immediate consequence but of spiritual alignment. When one consults a psychic, they turn away from the light of Christ, potentially inviting spiritual discord.

The right path, when feeling God's answer is delayed, is to deepen one’s faith through prayer, fasting, and communion with the Church. As the Psalmist says, "Wait for the Lord; be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the Lord!" (Psalm 27:14).

How might you deepen your reliance on God and His Church instead of turning to uncertain and perilous sources?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2682 | date:2024-05-05T10:39:02 ---


--- id:2683 | date:2024-05-05T10:39:02 ---


--- id:2684 | date:2024-05-05T10:40:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Easter, #Reserectuion 

In the EOTC and in the broader Orthodox world, the celebration of Easter encapsulates not only the resurrection of Jesus Christ but also a deep, mystical contemplation of life, death, and eternal renewal as foretold through the scriptures. This narrative of resurrection is not merely an event but an ongoing revelation of divine mystery and promise, deeply rooted in the theology and liturgical life of the Church.

The Resurrection of Christ: A Prophetic Fulfillment

The resurrection of Jesus Christ, after three days and nights in the tomb, stands as the cornerstone of Christian faith, particularly emphasized in the Orthodox tradition. This period in the grave symbolizes the fullness of prophecy, reflecting a profound theological significance. Christ’s descent into Hades was not a defeat but a mission to proclaim liberty to the souls held captive there, a victory over death itself.

Biblical Prophecies and Their Fulfillment

David, in his psalms, and Isaiah, through his prophecies, foretold the suffering and the triumphant resurrection of Christ. These prophecies highlight that Christ's body would not see corruption and His soul would not be left in Hades (Psalm 16:10). This scriptural anticipation is seen as a direct dialogue between the prophets and the mystery of Christ's passion and victory over death.

The Significance of the Three-Day Entombment

The time Christ spent in the tomb is a significant reflection of divine truth. Just as Jonah spent three days in the belly of the whale, so too did Christ remain in the heart of the earth, signifying a new creation emerging from the depths of the old. This period is intricately linked to the Jewish method of counting days, emphasizing Christ's resurrection precisely on the third day, fulfilling the scriptures and establishing a new covenant through His victory over death.

The Mystery of Christ's Resurrection

Christ’s resurrection is proclaimed as an act of divine authority and power, intrinsic to His nature. He rose by His own power, affirming His divinity and unity with the Father and the Holy Spirit. This self-resurrection is a fundamental tenet, distinguishing Christ’s resurrection from all others who were raised by the power of another. It is through His resurrection that the bonds of death were broken, offering salvation and hope of eternal life to all believers.

The New Tomb and Its Theological Implications

The choice of Christ's burial in a new tomb, as recounted in the Gospels, is deeply symbolic. It represents purity and a break from the past—He was laid in a tomb where no one had been laid. This ensured that His resurrection was recognized as a miraculous act through divine power alone, free from any other associations with previously sanctified individuals or prophets.

Christ's Victory Over Death and Its Cosmic Significance

Christ’s victory over death is not only a historical event but also a cosmic and eternal truth that permeates the fabric of Christian belief. It affirms that through Christ, death is not an end but a passage to a new form of existence. This is reflected in the liturgical and sacramental life of the Church, where every Eucharist celebrates the mystery of death and resurrection, renewing the believer’s hope in the resurrection.

The Living Hope of Resurrection

The resurrection of Christ instills a 'living hope' in the faithful, transforming the Christian understanding of death and resurrection. It is not merely about Christ rising from the dead but about all of humanity being offered a new existence beyond physical death. This hope is encapsulated in the liturgical practices, hymns, and prayers of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, which continually remind the faithful of the transformative power of Christ’s resurrection.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2685 | date:2024-05-05T10:42:02 ---
(Continued) ☝️

Conclusion: A Theological and Mystical Reflection

Thus, the celebration of Easter is not merely a historical reenactment but a profound engagement with the mysteries of divine love, justice, and the ultimate triumph of life over death. It invites the faithful to live in the reality of this mystery, where each believer is called to participate in the resurrection through a life of holiness, constant repentance, and joyful anticipation of eternal life.

This deep theological reflection, rooted in the scriptures and illuminated by the teachings of the Church Fathers, continues to inspire and shape the faith of millions, leading them towards a deeper understanding and appreciation of the ultimate victory of Christ — a victory over death and a promise of eternal life.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2686 | date:2024-05-05T10:45:01 ---
"Christ has risen from the dead, 
with great power and authority, 
he has seized Satan, 
and freed Adam, 
Peace, 
from now on, 
let it be,
joy and peace!."

--- id:2695 | date:2024-05-06T22:16:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Christian #living and #spirituality

Question፦ Philippians 2:1-11 “do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility regard others as better than yourself. Let each of you look not to your own interests, but to the interest of others” 

Can you explain why God would tell us to do this? Why do we need to humble ourselves for God to exalt us? What if we were better in something than someone else should we still regard them as better? Why would we need to exalt others interest above ours? Why can’t it be mutual? Why does Christ chose the lowest position (slave or poverty) when he could have chose to be a regular man with a regular income instead of poverty?

My second question, what would happen to someone if they were to go to a psychic for a reading? Some say Satan will rest on the person as soon as they enter and other say nothing will happen. Is there an immediate consequence or curse that comes on someone who chooses to go to a psychic once or twice for answers because they feel Gods answer is delayed?

Answer፦ Blessings to you, seeking the wisdom of the Scriptures and the teachings of the Holy Church. Your inquiries touch on profound aspects of Christian living and spirituality.

In Philippians 2:1-11, Saint Paul exhorts us to embody humility and selflessness, mirroring Christ's own humility. The reason for this directive is deeply embedded in the Christian understanding of love and service. As our Lord Jesus Christ says, "Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted" (Matthew 23:12). This teaching invites us to transcend our ego and pride, which often lead us away from God, and instead, cultivate a spirit of humility and service. By regarding others as better than ourselves, we combat the sin of pride, which the Fathers of the Church often warn us against, and open ourselves to the grace of God.

Yes, even if we excel in certain areas, humility guides us to recognize the dignity and worth of every person. It is not about denying our talents but about using them in service to others rather than for personal glorification. Christ Himself, though sinless and divine, chose the lowest place to show us that true greatness in the Kingdom of God is measured not by worldly status but by one's capacity to love and serve the least of our brethren.

Regarding your second question, the Church has always counseled against turning to psychics or any form of divination. This is reflected in the teachings of the early Church Fathers and the scriptures, such as when Deuteronomy 18:10-12 admonishes us against engaging in such practices, which are viewed as abominations unto the Lord. The danger lies not necessarily in immediate physical repercussions but in the spiritual harm and the distancing from God's light, which such practices engender. Seeking guidance from sources outside of God's revelation can lead to spiritual confusion and open the door to deceit from malevolent spirits.

Thus, turning to a psychic diverts one from relying on God’s providence and timing, potentially leading to spiritual harm. The Church invites us to patience and prayer, trusting in God's timing and His ultimate plan for us, rather than seeking quick answers from dubious sources.

Now, dear seeker, what step will you take to deepen your trust in God’s providence and embrace humility in your daily life?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2696 | date:2024-05-06T22:19:02 ---


--- id:2697 | date:2024-05-06T22:20:35 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first Monday of #Easter 

"Christ has risen from the dead, 
with great power and authority, 
he has seized Satan, 
and freed Adam, 
Peace, 
from now on, 
let it be,
joy and peace!."

The first Monday of Easter is known as 'ma‘idot', which means to pass through, just like Passover in Hebrew. In Orthodox teachings, the words ma‘idot, Fasika, and Pasca all refer to crossing.

The significance of ma‘idot can be understood in three ways. Firstly, after over 430 years of slavery in Egypt, God heard the cries of the oppressed Israelites and commanded Moses to have each family kill a year-old lamb without blemish and spread its blood on their doorposts. This day became known as Easter, as the angel of death passed over the houses where the lamb's blood was present, sparing their firstborns. This event represents the passing from slavery to freedom.

Secondly, when the Israelites finally left Egypt, God drowned Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea, while the Israelites passed through it on dry land. This marked their passage from slavery to freedom and their journey towards the promised land of Canaan, flowing with honey and milk.

Lastly, in the New Testament, Christ's death and resurrection allowed souls to pass from hell to heaven. Through the blood of the Lamb, Christ, those who were once enslaved by sin were able to pass from death to life and from condemnation to repentance. This is our ultimate Passover, as Christ loved us and washed us from our sins with his blood.

Therefore, ma‘idot is a day to commemorate Christ's death and resurrection, which brought salvation to the world and allowed souls to pass from hell to heaven. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2701 | date:2024-05-07T21:31:26 ---


--- id:2702 | date:2024-05-07T21:31:26 ---


--- id:2703 | date:2024-05-07T21:31:26 ---


--- id:2704 | date:2024-05-07T21:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first #Tuesday of #Easter

The First Tuesday of Easter is called #Thomas. Why is that? 

The first Tuesday of Easter is called Thomas because on Sunday night, after the Lord's resurrection, He appeared to the apostles in a closed house, but the apostle St. Thomas was not present. When the other apostles informed him about the resurrection of the Lord, St. Thomas said, "I will not believe unless I see the nail marks in His hands and put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into His side." The Lord said to him, "Put your finger here; see my hands. Reach out your hand and put it into my side. Stop doubting and believe." Then Thomas declared, "My Lord and my God!" Jesus said to him, "Because you have seen me, you have believed; blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed." This event is recorded in John 20:27-29. On this day, St. Thomas acknowledged the Lord's love and believed in the resurrection, so the Orthodox Church commemorates this day as Thomas.

The reason why our Savior allowed Thomas to touch His side and showed the crucified hands and feet to the holy apostles was to prove that He had truly risen from the dead, and that He was not a ghost or a mere apparition. The Lord showed His wounds to Thomas to convince him of the reality of His resurrection. John wrote, "We have seen it and testify to it" (John 20:24-31). When Mary Magdalene encountered the risen Lord on Easter morning, He told her not to touch Him, to teach us that women are not allowed to touch His Holy blood and precious blood, meaning that women cannot be priests because only priests can touch His Holy flesh. This is the commentary from our Church scholars. 

The Spiritual Development of St. Thomas: When St. Thomas was called by the Lord, he was a follower of the Sadducees, who did not believe in the resurrection of the dead. However, after encountering the risen Lord and receiving the Holy Spirit at Pentecost, St. Thomas became a bold witness of the resurrection and preached the Gospel in Persia and India, as recorded in church history.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2708 | date:2024-05-09T21:45:57 ---


--- id:2709 | date:2024-05-09T21:46:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first #Wednesday of #Pascha 

In Orthodox Christianity, the fourth day after the resurrection of Jesus Christ is known as "Lazarus" Wednesday.

It is called "Lazarus" Wednesday to commemorate the resurrection of Lazarus, who was raised from the dead by Jesus Christ four days after his burial. Lazarus means "God has helped us," and there are three Lazaruses mentioned in the Bible.

The first is Aaron's grandson in Exodus 6:23, the second is the poor man in a parable told by Jesus in Luke 16:20, and the third is Lazarus, the brother of Martha and Mary, whom Jesus raised from the dead as recounted in John 11:38.

On this day, the Orthodox Church teaches and remembers the miracle of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead on the fourth day. When Lazarus became sick, his sisters sent word to Jesus, "Lord, the one you love is sick." Jesus replied, "This sickness will not end in death. No, it is for God's glory so that God's Son may be glorified through it" (John 11:3-4).

When Jesus arrived in Bethany, Lazarus had already been dead for four days. Martha greeted Jesus and said, "Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died" (John 11:21). But Jesus told her, "I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me will live, even though they die; and whoever lives by believing in me will never die" (John 11:25-26).

Therefore, on the fourth day after Easter, we celebrate the resurrection of Lazarus and reflect on the promise of eternal life through faith in Jesus Christ. As the Apostle Paul wrote, "But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man. For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive" (1 Corinthians 15:20-22).

We believe that true life is found in living according to God's commandments and having a pure conscience. Our deeds, whether good or bad, have an impact on our soul, and we must strive to do what is right and avoid sin. May the resurrection of Lazarus remind us of the hope we have in Jesus Christ and inspire us to live a life pleasing to God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2710 | date:2024-05-09T21:48:01 ---


--- id:2711 | date:2024-05-09T21:49:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The first #Thursday of #Pascha

The fifth Thursday of Resurrection is known as "Adam Thursday". Our father Adam, the first man, and the mother of us all, Eve, were filled with happiness and joy in the Garden of Eden until they were expelled due to their disobedience to God's commands. They repented of their sins and begged for forgiveness. God made a promise to Adam that after five and a half days, He would be born from his grandson and be crucified to save mankind by His death. This day is remembered as the memorial of Adam. (Mark 4:24-28)

According to the Orthodox Church's teachings, a thousand years are like one day in God's eyes, which means that 5500 years is like five and a half days. As David said in his psalm, "A thousand years have passed before you, she is as diligent as yesterday and as night" (Ps 89:4). Saint Peter also taught that "with the Lord, one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like one day" (2 Pet 3:8).

Therefore, we remember and commemorate Adam's promise and the fulfillment of this Holy mystery on this day. The main reason why Christ became a man is because of Adam and our mother Eve's prayer and repentance.

Friday is the day Adam and Eve came out of Hell, but we celebrate Adam Thursday because it is the day when the promise made to Adam was fulfilled. Friday is also the day when the whole world was saved because of the crucifixion of Christ. Counting from Sunday to Thursday, it is five days, which means that at the end of five and a half days (5500), God's promise to Adam was fulfilled.

Adam, the first man, and the father of all mankind, was created on the sixth day, and all the descendants of mankind were derived from him. We remember that after living in mourning for 5500 years, the promise made to Adam has been fulfilled.

Adam Thursday commemorates the liberation of Adam from his children by Christ's death and resurrection. After spending seven years in the Garden of Eden, Adam and Eve were expelled because they disobeyed God's commands and accepted the advice of the enemy. They lost the joy they enjoyed in paradise and were forced to live in a land of thorns and thistles. Adam's grief was strong, but he did not complain about the pleasure he was doing in heaven. Instead, he said, "My Lord, I have broken the commandment and lost my place in heaven."

As Orthodox people, we have also broken God's commandments, transgressed from the law, and sinned, but we can repent and be saved. St. Paul teaches us, "I have heard you in the favored hour, and I have helped you in the day of salvation. Behold, the favored hour is now. And the day of salvation is today" (2 Cor. 6:2).

Lastly, it is important to remember that Sunday is the first day of the week, and Monday is the second day of the week.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2712 | date:2024-05-09T21:51:02 ---


--- id:2713 | date:2024-05-09T21:52:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Nativity of Saint #Mary

Beloved in Christ, we gather today to contemplate a mystery profound, An event both in time and beyond time: the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the Theotokos, our spiritual mother. This narrative is not merely a story of the past but a living fountain of spiritual wisdom and grace, flowing into the hearts of the faithful.

The Prelude to Redemption

In the fullness of time, a moment chosen by Providence, the world witnessed the birth of Mary, a pivotal event in the history of salvation. Her nativity signifies not just the birth of a saintly figure, but the dawning of a new era in divine-human relations. The earth, long cursed to bear thorns and thistles, offered its first and most splendid fruit in Mary. Herein, we behold a divine paradox: the infinite God preparing a finite creature to become His dwelling place.

The Righteous Ancestors: Joachim and Anna

Consider Joachim and Anna, her venerable parents. In them, we see a living testament to faith and righteousness. Their lives, marked by piety and adherence to the law, were a prelude to the grace they would receive. Their daughter, Mary, was not merely the fruit of their lineage but a gift of grace, a testament to the power of God working through human fidelity. They were chosen not for their nobility or riches but for their humility and devotion, proving that God exalts the lowly and fills the hungry with good things.

The Conception and Birth of Mary

In the conception and birth of Mary, we witness the intersection of divine providence and human cooperation. This event was not an ordinary occurrence but a divine intervention, marking the beginning of the fulfillment of ancient prophecies. The birth of Mary was the dawn before the rising Sun, Christ Himself. She was born not of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.

Mary: The Fulfillment of the Law

The nativity of Mary is not merely an isolated event but a critical juncture in the divine plan. She stands as the fulfillment of the Law, embodying its purity and righteousness. In her, the virtues extolled in the Old Testament find their perfect expression. Thus, in venerating Mary, we venerate the culmination of the law’s promise, the bridge between the old and the new.

The Virginity of Mary: A Sign of Divine Favor

The perpetual virginity of Mary is a sign of her unique role in salvation history. She was chosen, not consumed by earthly desires, but dedicated entirely to God's purpose. Her virginity is not a mere physical attribute but a symbol of her total consecration to God. In giving birth to Christ, she remains a virgin, signifying the miraculous nature of Christ's birth and the divine mystery encompassing it.

The Universal Motherhood of Mary

In her birth, Mary was given to humanity as a gift of grace, and through her, we received Christ, the greater gift. By bearing Christ, she becomes not only His mother but also the spiritual mother of all who follow Him. In her, we find our spiritual lineage, our connection to the divine. She is a mother to all, nurturing us in the faith and guiding us toward her Son.

Mary's Birth: A Challenge to Ancient Philosophies

The nativity of Mary confronts the ancient philosophies that viewed the material world with suspicion or contempt. In her, we see that creation can be sanctified and raised to divine dignity. Her purity and holiness challenge our perceptions of the physical world, revealing that it is not matter that is corrupt, but our misuse of it.

The Joy of Mary's Birth

The birth of Mary is a cause for universal rejoicing. It marks the end of a long period of spiritual barrenness and the beginning of our redemption. Just as a mother forgets her labor pains for the joy of bringing a child into the world, so too does the birth of Mary turn our sorrow into joy. In her birth, we see the promise of our own rebirth in Christ, the dawn of a new creation.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2714 | date:2024-05-09T21:54:03 ---
(Continued) 👆

Conclusion: Emulating Mary's Virtues

In contemplating the Nativity of Mary, let us strive to emulate her virtues: her humility, her obedience, her purity, and her total dedication to God's will. As we honor her, we are called to reflect on our own calling to be bearers of Christ in our world, to bring forth the fruits of the Spirit in our lives. May the Nativity of the Theotokos inspire us to live lives worthy of the calling we have received in Christ Jesus. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2719 | date:2024-05-11T21:54:13 ---


--- id:2720 | date:2024-05-11T21:56:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the first #Sunday of #Pascha 

This is the day that our Lord entered in a closed house, where the holy apostles were. He was among them and said "Peace be with you all" and explained the resurrection to them, but the apostle Thomas was not present. Later, when Thomas came, the holy apostles happily told him that the resurrection of our Lord had been revealed to them. "Am I going to teach and testify saying 'I heard' while you teach and testify saying you saw? No, if I don't see it, I won't believe it." Rather, He who knows the reason for the hearts of those whom He has chosen, the God of infinite goodness, the Savior of the world, just like He appeared to the other apostles, he entered without opening the door and stood among them, saying, "Peace be with you all." And he said to Thomas, "Believe, but do not doubt; behold, my hands and feet are nailed, and my pierced side." He saw our Lord and put his hands on his body to see that he was not a spirit and understood his divinity as he desired, he then believed and said "My Lord and my God."

When our Lord Jesus Christ appeared to the ten apostles for the first time, the apostle Thomas was not there. We celebrate this day to commemorate his second appearance to the apostles in the same place where St. Thomas was so that he can see him this time. 

The Lord rose up to remove Thomas's doubt. When Thomas touched his side, which was pierced by a spear, his hand looked like it entered into a sea of fire and he cried out, "My Lord, my God." He healed him by saying, "You see and believe, but blessed are those who believe without seeing." Joh 20:29 This hand that touched his side is still alive today in the land of India with the Malankara Orthodox Church. It is said that they use this hand to choose bishop as she points to the one who is suitable for this appointment. 

Therefore, this is the day when the mystery of resurrection was revealed to the apostles for the second time and our Church celebrated it in a special way.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2724 | date:2024-05-13T21:41:01 ---
👉🏾 About #fasting: how we should #fast

👉 Question: In the bible it says do not appear to be fasting. If people invite you over and ask you to eat but they aren’t christians, is it okay to say your fasting and ask for vegan meals or are we supposed to hide the fact we’re fasting. Also, if let’s say you want to fast untill 3:00 pm but family members want you to eat with them at 12:00, is saying you want to wait until 3:00 the wrong approach and should i just be eating with them at 12 or what’s the best approach. Another example is how my grandmother wants me to drink coffee with her around 12:00/1:00. Should i be saying okay and doing that or politely mention how i want to wait a little longer.

Answer፦ Thank you for your continued interest in deepening your spiritual practices. Regarding fasting, it is indeed important to maintain fidelity to the discipline of fasting while also considering its witness to those around us.

In situations where others invite you to eat during fasting periods, it can be both a testament to your faith and an opportunity for evangelism to kindly explain that you are fasting according to the traditions of the Orthodox Church. This approach aligns with the Scripture, "Sanctify Christ as Lord in your hearts, always being ready to make a defense to everyone who asks you to give an account for the hope that is in you, yet with gentleness and reverence" (1 Peter 3:15). It is an opportunity to witness about the practice and significance of fasting in our faith, always ensuring that it is done with the utmost humility, reflecting the gentle spirit of Christ.

If you are invited to eat or drink before your fasting period ends, such as the scenario with your grandmother wanting to share coffee, it is respectful to explain that you are still in your fasting period and would gladly join her later. This not only maintains your spiritual discipline but also honors the teachings of our Church Fathers on the importance of fasting.

These moments of fidelity to your fast are profound opportunities to live out your faith visibly and humbly. How might you prepare to share about your fasting practice in a way that enlightens and invites curiosity about Orthodoxy?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2725 | date:2024-05-13T23:33:19 ---
👉 About #music and our spiritual #service

👉🏾 Question፦ I have another question. What is the spiritual harm in listening to music? Do I always have to confess every time I listen to music or is it every time I engage or indulge in music? Will I not go to heaven because I listen to music? Am I inviting a demon when I listen to worldly music? 

Is there a specific demon associated with music & lust?

Also I have a question for you, how are you able to answer so many questions very well without burning out?

Can u tell me a little bit about your process? Like do you have a document with all the questions and do u recycle & reuse some of them? Do u have an assistant?

Answer፦ Blessings to you, seeker of truth. In our esteemed Orthodox tradition, music that elevates the soul, known as "Mezmur," is highly cherished. These spiritual songs are a means to worship and glorify God, echoing the wisdom of Saint Paul who encouraged, "Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs" (Ephesians 5:19).

Conversely, what we refer to as "music of the world" often carries themes and messages that may lead one away from the path of righteousness. It is this worldly music that requires careful discernment, as its influence can be contrary to spiritual growth and mindfulness. Confession is advisable when one feels that such music has drawn them into sin or away from contemplative living.

Our service, enriched by a dedicated group of fathers and scholars, warmly invites more individuals to explore the depth of Orthodoxy. Despite our capacity to guide many, we depend on our members to extend our reach. We encourage you, and all who seek spiritual nourishment, to join us and invite others who long for such guidance.

How might you contribute to bringing others into our spiritual family, sharing the peace and joy found in our teachings?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of The Virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2733 | date:2024-05-19T03:26:04 ---


--- id:2734 | date:2024-05-19T03:26:11 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #Yared 

Beloved brethren in Christ, may the grace and peace of God be upon you all. Today, we gather together to commemorate and celebrate the life and legacy of the esteemed Saint Yared of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Let us delve into the profound teachings and experiences of this great scholar and draw valuable lessons for our own spiritual journey.

Born in the year 505 A.D., near the ancient city of Axum, Saint Yared's upbringing was marked by an early struggle to grasp education. As a young child, he faced difficulties in understanding his studies, which left him disheartened. His mind, however, was captivated by the love for the Virgin Mary and her divine Son. One fateful day, his teacher remarked that he lacked color, insinuating his inability to comprehend the lessons. When tested, young Yared failed to respond and was consequently beaten.

The pain of the punishment deeply affected him, prompting Saint Yared to distance himself from his teacher. Exhausted, he sought refuge in the Mai Kirah area and, in his weariness, received a divine revelation from God. The Lord taught him the importance of perseverance and unwavering effort. Encouraged by this divine guidance, Saint Yared returned to his teacher, sought forgiveness, and resumed his education with renewed determination. He diligently applied himself to his studies and devoted himself to prayer, seeking communion with God.

In His infinite mercy, God blessed Saint Yared with a profound spiritual experience through the intercession of the Virgin Mary. The mysteries that had previously eluded him were unveiled, and he received divine insights and understanding. During his prayers, when heavenly hyms had not yet been revealed, three angels, in the form of birds, appeared before him and spoke to him, granting him their divine counsel.

Reinvigorated by this encounter, Saint Yared returned to the earthly realm, filled with inspiration and gratitude. He offered his thanksgiving in Axum Zion, where the people and the king marveled at the depth and beauty of his spiritual compositions. Saint Yared served diligently in Axum and Debre Damo, ascending to higher spiritual heights with each passing day. Eventually, he left his homeland, aspiring to join the company of the Virgin Mary and the heavenly host.

Throughout the remainder of his life, Saint Yared authored five significant books, leaving a profound legacy for future generations. He established centers of learning and spiritual instruction in Tana Kirkos, Zur Amba, and other locations, where he nurtured and mentored numerous disciples. Saint Yared's contributions to Ethiopian Orthodox Church music are characterized by three distinct types of songs: Geez, Ezl, and Ararai.

The Geez songs, meaning "found first," represent liberation, reminding us of the freedom we find in Christ. The Ezl songs, comprising thirty melodies sung in conjunction with Geez or Tazlo Ezl, inspire fortitude and endurance in the face of trials. Lastly, the Ararai songs, characterized by a melancholic and tender melody, represent the Holy Spirit, who comforts and emboldens believers.
Within Saint Yared's musical compositions, we encounter various symbols that add depth and richness to the musical expression. The "Difat" (ድፋት) symbolizes the descent of Christ from heaven, encouraging us to humbly submit to God's will. The "Hidet" (ሂደት) symbol, exemplified by the Lord's earthly ministry, urges us to continue our journey without hindrance, following in His footsteps.
Furthermore, the "Kinat" (ቅናት) symbol instructs us to lift our heads and proclaim the truth boldly, just as Christ did when confronted by His accusers. The "Yizet" (ይዘት) symbol, observed when a song is read swiftly, reminds us of the Lord's arrest by the Jews. The "Kurt" (ቁርጥ) symbol calls for strength and resilience, likening it to Christ's decision to endure suffering for the redemption of humanity.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:2735 | date:2024-05-19T03:30:02 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

We also encounter the "Chiret" (ጭረት) symbol, which denotes a quick movement within the melody, reflecting the urgency and swiftness of God's action. The "Rikrik" (ርክርክ) symbol encourages us to lengthen our spiritual melodies, reminding us of the eternal sacrifice of Christ and the abundant grace He bestows upon us. Lastly, the "Deret" (ደረት) symbol, characterized by a powerful and resounding voice, signifies the Lord's ascension, urging us to exalt and proclaim His glory.

Let us now explore some of the notable compositions of Saint Yared. "Dgwa,"(ድጓ) a song offered on Sundays and annual holidays, encompasses the Eucharistic celebration and conveys the profound mystery and joy of the Holy Communion. "Tsome Dgwa" (ጾመ ድጓ) refers to a specific variant of the song sung during the period of Abiy Lent, incorporating verses from Zawadah-Hosanna.
Another remarkable composition is "Zimare," (ዝማሬ) which is performed after the Eucharist. "Mwaset"(መዋሥዕት) is a prayer for the departed, sung during funerals, while "Mieraf" (ምዕራፍ) is a composition sung in every chapter, symbolizing a place of rest. The works of Saint Yared are intricate and carry profound spiritual significance, inviting us to explore the depths of our faith.
Saint Yared's spiritual journey continued as he traveled extensively, leaving an indelible mark on the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Saint Yared with his disciples Sawira, Eskender and Menker, embarked on a journey to the north, Semen Berh. They carried their hymn books and lived in the monastery by teaching hymns in the northern monastery. 

In one particularly extraordinary incident, Saint Yared entered the Axum Zion Church and placed his hands upon the sacred coffin. With a voice filled with reverence and awe, he uttered these words: "You are holy, you are blessed, you are praised; You are blessed. You are exalted, you are the ladder of light." As he recited his composition called "Anketse Berhan," (አንቀጸ ብርሃን) while singing the Ezl song, he ascended about an arm's length towards the heavens. This miraculous event left the psalmists astounded, and Saint Yared imparted his final words of guidance and farewell before retreating to a hidden cave, disappearing from this earthly realm.

On the 11th of May, in the year 571 A.D., at the age of 66, Saint Yared departed from this temporal existence, leaving behind a spiritual legacy that continues to inspire and uplift the faithful even to this day.

Dear brethren, as we reflect upon the life of Saint Yared, let us draw valuable lessons for our own spiritual journey. His unwavering commitment to education and perseverance in the face of challenges remind us of the importance of continuous learning and growth in our faith. Saint Yared's profound spiritual experiences and revelations underscore the transformative power of prayer and communion with God.

Through his hymnodical compositions and symbols, Saint Yared invites us to elevate our worship, allowing our voices and melodies to be a conduit for spiritual expression. His compositions, rich with deep meaning and divine inspiration, serve as a reminder of the beauty and majesty of our Orthodox tradition.

May we be inspired by the life and teachings of Saint Yared, remembering the importance of perseverance, unwavering faith, and an ardent pursuit of divine knowledge. Let us strive to cultivate a deep and vibrant spiritual life, expressing our devotion to God through worship and service. May Saint Yared's legacy continue to resonate within our hearts and guide us on our journey towards eternal communion with our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2737 | date:2024-05-19T23:07:03 ---


--- id:2738 | date:2024-05-19T23:10:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Communion 

👉What is the Holy Communion?

👉What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion?

👉Who founded the Holy Communion?

👉Why is the Holy Communion called a Mystery?

👉Who is worthy of the Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do before receiving Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do when we receive Holy Communion?

👉What are major points we need to understand before receiving it?

👉What precautions should we take after receiving Holy Communion?

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the questions on the topic above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.


About the Holy Communion, its Origin and the ceremony

According to the canon of our Church, the Holy Eucharist (Qurban) is one of the seven sacraments of the Church. Qurban is a Surist and Greek (Arabic) word that means blessing, gift of money, knowledge, labor and time. In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.
 
In the Old Testament era, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called 'sacrifice', 'communion'.
 
But in the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile himself with mankind. Therefore, the sacrament means the perfect body and blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior, the Lamb of God.

It is our God, our Savior, Jesus Christ, who founded the sacrament of the Holy Communion. And the day he started the system is the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. When our savior established this great system and secret, only his twelve disciples were with him, and he did not reveal it to all the people who were following him as before. This is the reason why the Church still presents it with a veil and honor. When our Lord was sacrificed on the cross, in order to cover Him, the sun was dark the moon was covered with blood and the stars dropped down like withered fruit like chilies . Even the angels of heaven dare not touch the sacrifice, for this is given only to the priests.
 
The Holy Communion is called a mystery. Our Lord Jesus Christ took the bread, blessed it, consecrated it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "This is my flesh." Therefore, it is a great mystery that the bread is changed into the flesh of God the Son  (the flesh of God) and the wine is the blood of God the Son  (blood of God), that is why it is called the mystery. (Matthew 26:26, Mark 14:22) Even today, the priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat, and they prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread into the flesh of God and the wine into the blood of God, the authority of the priest, the word of God, and through the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God) and the wine into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God). This makes the Holy Communion a mystery because it is hidden from the unbeliever, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. In addition, visible service is given the secret of invisible grace.
 
Major Points that we need to understand before receiving Holy Communion
 
- We must believe without doubt that the bread and wine are changed into the body and blood of Jesus Christ. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body..this is my blood, drink. (Matthew 26:26)

(Part 2 to be continued )👇

--- id:2739 | date:2024-05-19T23:12:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  2 (Cont'd)

- It is necessary to believe that the Holy Communion is given to heal the stain of sin and to heal the wound of sin. He said, "Drink of it, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.'" (Matthew 26:27)

- It must be acknowledged that it leads to eternal life. "Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day" (John 6:53).
 
- All those who partake of the Holy Communion must believe that Christ is with them, that they live together with Christ, that His flesh is united with their flesh, and their blood is united with His blood, and that their God is united with them by grace. (He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives with me, and I live in him" (John 6:56).

- It is necessary to repent from past sins, confess, return and guard against future sins. "After that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God." (Mark 1:14) The Kingdom of God refers to His Holy Body and His Precious Blood.
 
- There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion. From the day we were baptized on the 40th and 80th day after birth, where by we become being children of God and received the Holy Communion, we should not stay away from the Holy Communion since then until the end of our lives. It is a great mistake to think of youth as sinfulness in itself or a life unfit for the sacrament, and to think that we should  receive only in infancy and youth. There is no set age for approaching the Holy Communion and not approaching. The only thing that keeps us away from the Holy Communion is if we are highly involved in a particular sin and that we still do now and then being unable stop it. We should take a gap and and make sure to be committed to stop that particular sin first.  Unbelief should not be admitted to sin without repentance. "And now, says the Lord, return to me with all your hearts, fasting, weeping and wailing" (Acts 2:12).
 
 
- Husband and wife should receive Holy Communion together at the first time. If a husband and wife have not received the sacrament together before, it is not allowed for them to receive it separately or one side alone. But after they once received it together, they have already confirmed their unity in flesh and spirit, they can be receive separately. 
 
- In general, because our salvation Jesus Christ died for all, it is a wrong attitude to take the difference between married and single, race, color, sex and age. A person should live by receiving Holy Communion from his childhood until he gets married, when he gets married (together with his husband/wife), and after marriage until his death.
 
Points We  Need to know upon Preparation to receive Holy Communion
 
 
1.       Prepare with absolute faith. We should believe that what we receive is the holy body and precious blood of our Lord, who died on the cross of Calvary on Friday for the world's salvation. In addition, we should strengthned our belive saying to our self :- " I will find forgiveness through repentance for the sins I committed; I will find the strength to be protected from future sins, Christ is in me and I will live in Christ, I will find eternal salvation, I will be protected from a sick body and a sick soul." Saying this, we need to prepare with complete faith and always repent from sin before being anointed and prepare to receive it with faith.
 
(Part 2 to be continued)👇

--- id:2740 | date:2024-05-19T23:15:33 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  3 (Cont'd)

2.       If those receiving Holy Communion are married, they should abstain from sexual intercourse for 3 days before receiving Holy Communion. Sexual intercourse on permitted days in marriage is not a sin, but since it is an act of the flesh , so this period is also one of the forbidden days in terms of giving respect to the sacrament.
 
3.       Anyone who repents and is freed from his sins should keep his heart away from revenge and his body away from wrongdoing.

4.       In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food and water, and wait until the feeling of food being removed from the stomach.

5.       If one sees inappropriate dreams, they will not receive Holy Communion that day. Also, if there is bleeding on anypart of a body, bleeding wound,  or if vomited, or if flys like a mosquito bite entered our the mouth or nose, it is not possible to receive on that day.

6. On the eve of the day we plan to receive Holy Communion, we should take a bath and clean what we wear.

7. Before starting the mass, it is necessary to attend the church and properly follow /consecrate the mass. We should be present before Liturgy starts, and ideally attend the services before that as well. 

8. A woman should  not receive until 7th days of her menstruation. Then she washes her body and can receives on the 8th day or after then. Also at the time of childbirth she does not receive it until he day of the Christening of the child. "If a woman gives birth, it means 80 days, if she gives birth to a boy, it means 40 days" (Leviticus 12:1-5)

Points we need to know when we present at Church to receive Holy Communion

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2750 | date:2024-05-25T22:03:10 ---


--- id:2751 | date:2024-05-25T22:04:54 ---
👉🏾 About the use of #Iconography in the #EOTC 

👉 Question፦ Why are these colonial images  of Jesus from Italy, Rome allowed in our church and in our prayer books?? 

While in Gojam, ethiopia we have the original authentic black images of mariam and iyesus that was drawn by disciple lucas ???

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, thank you for guiding this deepening dialogue concerning an issue that intertwines the historical, cultural, and doctrinal aspects of our sacred traditions. Your observations invite us to consider both the variety of iconographic styles within Orthodoxy and the sensitive issues surrounding racial representations in sacred art.

In Orthodox Christianity, iconography is not simply art; it is a theological declaration, embodying profound spiritual truths and doctrines. Icons are venerated not for their aesthetic value alone but for their role as windows to the divine, helping the faithful to transcend the earthly and connect with the spiritual.

Orthodox vs. Non-Orthodox Iconography: 
Orthodox icons adhere to strict canonical guidelines that have been refined over centuries. These guidelines ensure that icons reflect the theological doctrines of the Church—emphasizing the divinity and humanity of Christ, the sanctity of the Theotokos (Mother of God), and the lives of the saints. Whether depicted in the Ethiopic styke, Byzantine style, the traditional Russian style, each follows doctrinal correctness to guide the faithful in true theological understanding.

Non-Orthodox icons, such as those from Roman Catholic or Protestant traditions, often differ in style and theological emphasis and may not conform to the doctrinal standards of Orthodoxy. Their inclusion in Orthodox spaces can lead to theological confusion and are generally not appropriate within Orthodox liturgical and devotional practices.

Cultural Representation and Iconography:
The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, part of the rich tapestry of worldwide Orthodoxy, embraces iconography that reflects its cultural and historical context. This means that sacred figures are often depicted with Ethiopian features, clothing, and settings, celebrating the Gospel’s incarnation into local culture. This approach is mirrored in other Orthodox traditions, where local features are common, underscoring the universality of Christ and His Church.

The diversity in iconographic representations also addresses broader issues such as race and ethnicity. It is vital to acknowledge that the varied depictions have historically been both a source of inspiration and, regrettably, at times, contention. In contexts where racial representations have been used to oppress or dominate, such as during periods of colonization and slavery, the images associated with such histories can evoke deep pain and alienation.

Bridging Understandings in a Multi-Ethnic Context:
In America, where the Church serves a diverse body of believers, it becomes especially crucial to foster an understanding that transcends cultural and racial divisions. By educating about the purpose and meaning of icons, emphasizing their role as sacred tools for spiritual communion rather than mere cultural symbols, we can help heal the wounds of the past. This education should highlight that Christ belongs to all humanity and that His message is one of universal salvation and unity.

As we continue to navigate these complexities, it is essential to approach all discussions with compassion, humility, and a deep commitment to the truths of our faith. We must strive to ensure that our churches are places where all feel welcomed and represented, where the diversity of God’s creation is celebrated within the profound unity of Orthodox doctrine.

Some things to ponder on are: How can we, as a community and as individuals, contribute to a more profound understanding and appreciation of both the diversity and unity within Orthodox iconography? How can we ensure that our representations of the sacred are sources of healing and communion, not division?

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2752 | date:2024-05-25T22:06:20 ---
(Continued) ☝️

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2756 | date:2024-05-26T21:45:01 ---


--- id:2757 | date:2024-05-26T21:46:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 "Be #Holy, for I the Lord Your God Am Holy" - A Reflection on Divine Holiness and Human Sanctification

Beloved brethren in faith, grace unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We find ourselves gathered, in spirit and truth, to contemplate a profound declaration from the Holy Scriptures, as recorded in Leviticus 19:2: "You shall be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy." This divine injunction is not merely a command but a call to the essence of our Christian life, a summons to mirror the holiness of God Himself.

The Nature of Divine Holiness

First, let us consider the nature of God's holiness. Holiness, in the context of the Almighty, is not an attribute acquired from another; it is intrinsic to His very being. God is holy in an absolute, perfect, and unoriginated sense. This holiness is reflective of His otherness, His complete separation from sin, and His supreme purity.

God's holiness is foundational to all His works and words. As Isaiah proclaims, the seraphim around the throne cry endlessly, "Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts; the whole earth is full of His glory!" (Isaiah 6:3). This triple exclamation underscores the perfect holiness of God, a holiness that permeates the entirety of His creation, declaring His glory and righteousness.

The Call to Human Holiness

Turning to the call of Leviticus 19:2, we are bid to be holy as God is holy. This command beckons us to a life set apart, consecrated unto God. It is a call that transcends mere moral uprightness or religious observance; it is an invitation to partake in the divine nature (2 Peter 1:4), to be transformed by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.

Holiness Through Grace and Communion

How, then, can we, who are but dust and ashes, aspire to such celestial heights of holiness? It is through grace, dearly beloved. Holiness is imparted to us through the redemptive work of Christ on the cross, where He, being holy, took upon Himself our sin and shame, that we might become the righteousness of God in Him (2 Corinthians 5:21).

In the sacrament of Baptism, we are buried with Christ into His death and raised to walk in newness of life (Romans 6:4). This sacramental rebirth is the genesis of our sanctification, the moment we are marked out as holy unto the Lord. But let it be clear, this sanctification is both instantaneous and progressive. While we are declared holy by virtue of Christ's merit, we are also called to grow in holiness, to be sanctified in truth and love through continual obedience to God's Word and Spirit.

The Community of the Holy

Moreover, holiness is not an isolated journey. As the Church, the body of Christ, we are collectively called to be a holy nation, a royal priesthood (1 Peter 2:9), set apart to proclaim the excellencies of Him who called us out of darkness into His marvelous light. In this holy communion, we find strength and encouragement, as iron sharpens iron (Proverbs 27:17), to pursue purity and sanctity.

The Struggle Against Sin

Yet, this call to holiness is not without its struggles. We reside in a world marred by sin, surrounded by temptations and trials that seek to deviate us from our sacred path. Here, the words of the Apostle Paul resonate deeply, reminding us to put off the old self with its practices and to put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator (Colossians 3:9-10).

Conclusion: The Hope of Holiness

In conclusion, my beloved, the command to be holy as God is holy is both a daunting challenge and a glorious promise. It is daunting because it calls us to a standard that is divine; yet, it is glorious because it promises us the very life of God through communion with Him. Let us then, with reverence and awe, pursue this holiness, not as those who strive in vain, but as those who are empowered by the Spirit of the Holy God, confident that He who began this good work in us will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ (Philippians 1:6).

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:2758 | date:2024-05-26T21:48:02 ---
(Continued) ☝️

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit, be with you all. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2770 | date:2024-05-28T22:02:04 ---


--- id:2771 | date:2024-05-28T22:02:12 ---


--- id:2772 | date:2024-05-28T22:02:58 ---


--- id:2773 | date:2024-05-28T22:02:58 ---


--- id:2774 | date:2024-05-28T22:02:58 ---


--- id:2775 | date:2024-05-28T22:02:58 ---


--- id:2776 | date:2024-05-28T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Feast of #Debre #Mitmaq: A Celestial Manifestation of the Virgin #Mary

In the rich tapestry of Christian traditions, the Feast of Debre Mitmaq holds a special place in the hearts of the faithful, serving as a profound reminder of the Virgin Mary’s presence and her divine intercessions. Celebrated with deep religious fervor, this festival commemorates the miraculous appearances of the Holy Virgin Mary atop the dome of the Debre Matmak church in Egypt, spanning from May 21 to May 25.

Historical and Spiritual Significance

The origins of Debre Mitmaq are deeply rooted in the holy sojourn of the Virgin Mary and her son, Jesus Christ, to Egypt and Ethiopia. It is said that upon their visit, the Lord sanctified the ground of Debre Mitmaq, proclaiming it a divine realm of Marian apparitions. This prophecy was fulfilled when the Virgin Mary chose this sacred site to reveal herself, blessing it as a sanctuary for countless monks and pilgrims seeking spiritual solace.

Visions of the Divine

The apparitions at Debre Mitmaq are not mere visual phenomena; they are profound spiritual encounters. The Virgin Mary is described as appearing in resplendent light, surrounded by celestial hosts and seraphim who honor her with deep reverence. Such visions were confirmed by historical texts like the Book of Sanksar, which vividly describe how saints and martyrs, including prominent figures like Saint George and Saint Mercurius, paid homage to her during these miraculous events.

Impact on the Community

The festival is more than a celebration; it acts as a spiritual catalyst. The days of Marian appearances at Debre Mitmaq were times of conversion and redemption. Pagans found faith, sinners received mercy, and the entire community was imbued with a sense of divine grace. Every prayer and wish directed to the Virgin Mary during this period was fulfilled, reinforcing her role as a mediator between the divine and the earthly.

Literary and Theological Reflections

The significance of these events has been echoed through centuries in the writings of saints and scholars. They saw in Mary not just a mother, but a foundational figure in the Christian narrative of salvation and redemption. Theologians like Emperor Zera Jacob and Saint Ephraim the Syrian have penned praises, likening her to a beacon of hope and a bastion of purity. Their writings often reflect a deep theological understanding of Mary's role in divine economy, portraying her as an essential conduit of God’s grace to humanity.

Father Tsige’s Spiritual Exhortations

Father Tsige's reflections on the Virgin Mary’s apparitions offer a poignant reminder of the emotional and spiritual impact of these events. In his writings, he narrates how even the most mundane interactions during the apparitions, like the exchange of handkerchiefs, became sacred acts of communion with the divine, each carrying blessings back to the homes of the faithful.

Cultural and Social Reverberations

The annual celebration of Debre Mitmaq extends beyond the confines of the church, influencing societal norms and cultural practices. It serves as a powerful reminder of the Virgin Mary's enduring presence in the lives of her devotees. The festival also reinforces community bonds, as people of all ages and backgrounds gather in unity to celebrate this miraculous event.

Conclusion: A Call to Spiritual Awakening

As we reflect on the Feast of Debre Mitmaq, let us be inspired by the Virgin Mary’s example of humility, obedience, and purity. Her appearances are not just historical footnotes but are calls to a deeper spiritual awakening. They invite us to seek refuge in her maternal embrace and find peace in the promise of her intercession.

In the grandeur of these celebrations, the message is clear: the Virgin Mary stands as a pillar of hope and a beacon of salvation, guiding the faithful toward divine love and eternal life. Let us, therefore, approach her with reverent hearts and let her spiritual presence illuminate our paths toward sanctity and grace.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:2777 | date:2024-05-28T22:06:02 ---
(Continued) ☝️

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2829 | date:2024-05-30T22:15:02 ---


--- id:2830 | date:2024-05-30T22:16:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy #Eucharist 

Brethren in the Lord, who stand steadfast in the unwavering Orthodox faith, grace unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Today we will be learning about the holy Eucharist, which stands as the pinnacle of our redemption and the very lifeblood of the Church.

✍ The Incarnation: The Prologue to the Eucharist

Before we venture into the holy of holies, let us lay a foundation by reflecting upon the Incarnation, which is the cornerstone of all Christian doctrine. In the fullness of time, God, in His inscrutable wisdom, willed to be united with man. "The Word became flesh and dwelt among us" (John 1:14). This is not a mere visitation but an abiding union. The Godhead was pleased to dwell bodily (Colossians 2:9), and in this union, the natures of divinity and humanity are neither confounded nor separated but are united without mixture or change.

In this mystical union, Christ fully assumed our nature, bearing our griefs, carrying our sorrows, yet without sin. As Saint Cyril rightly proclaimed, the nature that needed salvation was not passed over. Thus, the unblemished Lamb, perfect God and perfect Man, presented Himself as the only sacrifice capable of redeeming our fallen state.

✍ The Eucharist: The Continuation of Incarnation

The Eucharist, dear faithful, is not separate from this grand narrative; it is the perpetuation of the Incarnation. Just as the divine nature did not obliterate the human in Christ, so the essence of bread and wine is not destroyed when consecrated as the Body and Blood. Here, the Church in her wisdom teaches us that in this Holy Sacrament, there is a mystical but real transformation, akin to the Incarnation itself.

As the Lord Jesus, at His Last Supper, did not speak in parables when He said, "This is my body... This is my blood" (Matthew 26:26-28), we take Him at His divine word, acknowledging a mystery that cannot be fathomed by the human mind but is apprehended by faith.

✍ The Eucharist: The Apex of Theology

In the Eucharist, we find the sum and summit of all theological truth. It is the tangible expression of God's love, the assurance of His promise, the fulfillment of the covenant. The Eucharist stands as a foretaste of the eschatological feast, where the Church militant and the Church triumphant are united in the worship of the Lamb.

This Sacrament is not a mere remembrance but an anamnesis, a making present of the one sacrifice of Calvary. In the Divine Liturgy, we are lifted above time and space, and the events of our redemption are made present to us, that we might partake of the fruits of the Tree of Life which is Christ Himself.

✍ The Eucharist: The Medicine of Immortality

Saint Ignatius of Antioch called the Eucharist the "medicine of immortality," and rightly so. For as much as the body requires bread for sustenance, so too does the soul require the Body of Christ for eternal life. In this Holy Communion, we are united to Christ and through Him to one another, forming one body, of which He is the head.

To partake of the Eucharist unworthily is to eat and drink judgment upon oneself (1 Corinthians 11:29). Hence, the Church, as a loving mother, calls her children to approach with a pure heart, having confessed and repented, that they might be made partakers of divine nature (2 Peter 1:4).

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:2831 | date:2024-05-30T22:20:41 ---
✍ Conclusion: The Call to Union with Christ

The Eucharist calls us to a life of holiness and union with Christ. It is not an end in itself but the means to our sanctification and salvation. To commune is to abide in Christ and to have Christ abide in us. Here, the faithful are invited to partake of the divine banquet, to enter into the joy of their Master, and to be transformed into the image of the One who gave Himself up for us all.

Let us, therefore, draw near with faith and with an ardent desire to be united with Christ, to be healed by His touch, and to be sanctified by His life-giving Body and Blood. May this Holy Sacrament be for us a pledge of the world to come and a haven of salvation in this present age.

In the words of our beloved Saint John Chrysostom, "O taste and see that the Lord is good" (Psalm 34:8), and let us partake of this banquet with the angels, making earth

 join with heaven, in the unending hymn of praise.

Through the prayers of our Holy Fathers, Lord Jesus Christ our God, have mercy on us. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:2871 | date:2024-05-31T21:42:33 ---


--- id:2872 | date:2024-05-31T21:42:33 ---


--- id:2873 | date:2024-05-31T21:42:33 ---


--- id:2874 | date:2024-05-31T21:43:45 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Tears of #repentance 

Dear Orthodox friends of John's Repentance website spiritual program series; We have sent you the following educational message regarding the subject mentioned in the title, so we entrust you to read and understand it.

There is a legend that has been told since ancient times. The Almighty God said to the angels, "Go to the earth and bring the most precious things that you find on earth." One of the angels brought a drop of blood that a man had shed to save another man. The Most High God said, "O angel; This that you have brought is glorious in my sight. However, it is not the most glorious one. Another angel came from a patient who died of an infectious disease and a nurse who died from the disease and brought her last breath. The Most High God said, "O angel; This that you have brought is glorious in my sight. However, it is not the most glorious one. Finally, another angel brought the tears of a sinner who had repented in a small cup before God. And God said to the angel, "O angel; "You have brought to me the most noble thing in the world," he replied. (Philokalia: the Bible of Orthodox Spirituality p.159)

The way for a person to return to God after he has sinned is through tears of repentance. The psalmist, Saint David, often tells us about the blessed pearl of the Holy Spirit. Let's notice what he said, "I wash my bed all night long, and I wipe my bed with my tears." He said this because his repentance is through the grace and mercy of the Holy Spirit. For his repentance was not in vain like the repentance of Judas. Again, the psalmist tells us that "weeping will come in the evening, but in the morning there will be joy" (Ps 29 (30):5). This signifies the joy of the Holy Spirit given with tears. It is related to what the Lord said in the Gospel, "Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted" (Matthew 5:4). Tears give spiritual rest to the soul lost in sin, and cause it to gain insight and the revelation of mysteries. When the Holy Gospel talks about Saint Peter, it says, "He went outside and wept bitterly" (Luke 22:62). He received the great responsibility to feed and lead the believers after walking in tears

Our ancestors taught that tears are a gift from God to give birth to a new life. Baptism is one; If a person sins after baptism and is in the work of death, his return and "rebirth" is this tear of repentance. Through the tears of repentance, he renews the grace that he received in baptism, but which was later corrupted by sin.

St. John the Baptist said, "The fire of sin is steadfast." But a few drops of tears extinguishes the burning of mistakes (like fire) and purifies our souls. He teaches us this spiritual lesson. Because the tears of true repentance are a gift from God, it explains to us that no matter how bad a person's wrongdoing is, it has the power to destroy that serious sin. St. John said this to indicate that a person can do wrong because of his free will, and whether he does not use it, will be questioned at the time of judgment. We find this holy father often teaching about tears of repentance. One of his teachings where he explained that "tears are both the mother and child of prayer" is worth mentioning. Tears have a great place for a person's eternal life and the union of grace with God. It makes a person compassionate, pure, loving others, forgiving and humble. If he does this, he will live forever as his creator (God).

In general, all members; Thinking only of God's things, we should repent, be in a broken heart to fulfill our canon properly, and pray with tears; Similarly, if we come across other things that can mislead or distract us, we recommend that we need to stay away from them so that we don't fall into sin.

We will return in the next lesson about the obstacles to repentance, so stay tuned

©ዮሐንስ ንስሐ 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/+DCbv9KRTroY0NmJh

--- id:2905 | date:2024-06-02T22:06:30 ---


--- id:2906 | date:2024-06-02T22:07:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Prodigal #Son 

The tale of the prodigal son, eloquently captured in the Gospel of Luke, serves not merely as a narrative of familial relations but as a profound theological allegory, reflecting the inexhaustible mercy of God and the human condition of sin, repentance, and redemption.

At the core of this parable lies a young man, the prodigal himself, who demands his inheritance prematurely, a symbolic act of severing familial bonds, akin to declaring his father dead to his desires and ambitions. With riches in hand, he departs for a distant land, emblematic of estrangement not only from his family but from the divine path, entering a realm where his fortunes and moral compass gradually deteriorate.

In the distant country, his descent is swift; the wealth squandered on frivolous pursuits—a metaphor for the soul's degradation when it strays from the divine teachings. The prodigal son's plight deepens as he finds himself in dire poverty, so severe that he becomes a swineherd, an occupation abhorrent to Jewish customs, indicating his utter defilement and spiritual bankruptcy.

The turning point of this narrative is marked by a profound inner reckoning—“he came to himself,” a phrase that resonates deeply, suggesting a moment of lucidity and self-awareness. It is here, in the depths of despair, that the prodigal son contemplates returning to his father, not as a son but as a servant, deeming himself unworthy of filial status due to his transgressions.

His return is a poignant depiction of repentance. Repentance, as understood in this context, is not merely an act of sorrow but an arduous journey back to the origins of divine grace. The father’s reaction is pivotal; he receives his son not with condemnation but with compassion and joy, symbolizing God's boundless grace. The father’s actions—running to meet his son, embracing him, and restoring his status—underline the theme of divine mercy that overshadows judgment.

Contrastingly, the elder son’s reaction introduces a discourse on righteousness and envy. His years of obedience and service to his father stand juxtaposed against his inability to rejoice in the return of the lost. His bitterness unveils a crucial lesson: external compliance with duty without internal love and mercy holds little value in the kingdom of God. The elder son, despite his outward fidelity, lacks the father's compassionate heart, a subtle admonition to those who pride themselves on their righteousness yet harbor resentment.

This parable culminates in a celebration of restoration, symbolizing the heavenly joy over one sinner who repents. More profoundly, it challenges the community—the church, in a broader sense—to embrace repentant sinners without prejudice or resentment. It calls for a reflection on the nature of forgiveness and the expansive scope of divine love.

Thus, the lesson of the prodigal son transcends its historical and cultural context, touching upon universal themes of human frailty, divine forgiveness, and the possibility of spiritual renewal. It beckons us to reflect on our own spiritual journeys—are we like the prodigal, the elder brother, or striving to embody the father's grace? In this narrative, we are invited not only to witness the redemption of the prodigal but to participate in the divine joy of reconciliation, reminding us that in the economy of God’s kingdom, mercy triumphs over judgment, love overcomes estrangement, and every return is met with a celebration.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2908 | date:2024-06-03T21:33:57 ---


--- id:2909 | date:2024-06-03T21:34:15 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Profound Nature of #Church #Membership

Church membership holds a significance that transcends mere affiliation or registry; it is an intimate embrace of the divine will, an echo of the eternal communion that binds the faithful not only to one another but to Christ Himself. As the venerable John Chrysostom might have articulated, church membership is not a passive status but an active participation in the life of the Church, which itself is the Body of Christ.

The Theological Foundation of Church Membership

The scripture provides profound insights into the nature of church membership. Consider the poignant imagery presented in John 10:14-15, where Christ declares, "I am the good shepherd, as the Father knows me, and I know my own sheep, just as I know the Father, and my own sheep know me...and they will hear my voice." Here, membership in the Church is likened to the sheep known intimately by their shepherd, Christ, who calls them by name and leads them to salvation.

This metaphor extends further in John 21, where Christ entrusts Peter with the care of His sheep, emphasizing the pastoral responsibility towards every soul within the Church. Membership, therefore, is deeply relational, characterized by a mutual knowledge and a shared journey towards divine truth and grace.

The Ecclesiastical Role in Spiritual Sustenance

The role of the Church extends beyond the walls of its sanctuaries. It serves as a bastion of support and guidance through the vicissitudes of human experience—be it joy, sorrow, or tribulation. Psalm 90 reflects on the protective refuge God provides, symbolizing how the Church, too, must be a sanctuary for its members, a place of rest and renewal in the shadow of the Almighty.

However, as with any profound commitment, church membership carries inherent responsibilities. It demands more than passive attendance; it calls for active engagement in the sacramental life of the Church. Baptism, Eucharist, and penance are not mere rites of passage but are vital means of grace that fortify the believer's soul, knitting them more closely into the fabric of the Church's life.

The Praxis of Church Membership

True church membership manifests through a vibrant spiritual praxis. It is visible in those who not only partake of the sacraments but who also embody the teachings of Christ in their daily lives. Such members are marked not by their names in a register but by their actions and their commitment to living out the Gospel.

The canonical decrees of the Church underscore this, noting that mere nominal affiliation does not constitute genuine membership. As Christ Himself warned, "He who believes and is baptized will be saved, but he who does not believe will be judged" (Mark 16:16). Thus, the Church cannot recognize those who do not meet the spiritual criteria of true membership, which includes faith, baptism, and a life congruent with Christian values.

The Communal Aspect of Church Membership

Membership also has a communal dimension; it is experienced and expressed within the community of believers. The Church is a body composed of diverse members, each contributing uniquely to its life. This diversity is not a barrier but a testament to the universality of Christ's call. In the Church, young and old, men and women, all social strata and occupations, come together, united under one faith, one baptism, one Lord.

Conclusion: The Call to Authentic Membership

In conclusion, church membership is a call to a profound spiritual journey, a commitment to live in accordance with the teachings of Christ and the traditions of the Church. It is about being known by the Good Shepherd and knowing Him in return, participating in His mysteries, and contributing to the life of the Church community. Each member, therefore, is called to a life of faith, hope, and charity, to be a living witness to the truth of the Gospel, not merely in word but in deed.

(Continues )👇🏾

--- id:2910 | date:2024-06-03T21:36:01 ---
(Continued) ☝️

As St. John Chrysostom might remind us, our membership in the Church is our pathway to communion with Christ and through Him, to eternal life. This is the essence of church membership: it is a sacred calling to embody the love of Christ, to nurture the faith within ourselves and among our brethren, and to advance steadfastly towards the heavenly kingdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2912 | date:2024-06-04T22:00:01 ---


--- id:2913 | date:2024-06-04T22:01:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Luminous Path of #Christian #Virtue

In the radiant narrative of the Gospel, the Christian life unfolds not merely as a journey through the temporal landscape but as a profound engagement with the eternal truths bestowed upon us by Christ our Savior. This life, marked by both sacrifice and serenity, demands of us adherence to divine principles that mold our spiritual contours and guide our earthly actions.

The Call to Virtue and the Renunciation of Vice

Central to the Christian ethos is the dual mandate of renouncing worldly vices and embracing spiritual virtues. As our forebears have illustrated through lives of sanctity, the road to the heavenly Jerusalem is paved with acts of abstinence and confrontation—abstinence from the snares that entangle us in sin, and confrontation against the forces that would divert us from our sacred path.

The Art of Fleeing

Wisdom lies in recognizing one’s limitations and the potential for faltering. Just as Saint Mary Magdalene turned away from the shadows of her past to follow the luminous path of Christ, we too are called to flee from the temptations that besiege us. This flight is not one of cowardice but of courage; it is a deliberate choice to seek refuge in the arms of divine grace rather than the fleeting pleasures of the secular world.

The Courage to Confront

Yet, our spiritual journey is not solely one of avoidance. It necessitates the bold confrontation of the obstacles that obstruct our communion with the Divine. Empowered by the Holy Spirit, we are to challenge the lethargy that dulls our prayerful vigilance, the hunger that breaks our fasts prematurely, and the myriad temptations that disrupt our pilgrimage to sacred spaces. In these confrontations, we cultivate the Fruits of the Spirit, nurturing within ourselves a garden from which can bloom charity, patience, kindness, and fortitude.

The Sanctity of Learning and Health

In the pursuit of spiritual excellence, learning serves as a cornerstone. It entails not merely the acquisition of knowledge but the application of divine truths to our lives, thereby transforming both our understanding and our actions. As we advance in our spiritual education, our lives become testimonies of the love and joy that are found in Christ.

Moreover, the Christian conception of health extends beyond the physical, embracing a holistic view that ties the well-being of the soul to the vitality of the body. In these trying times, when spiritual malaise often translates into physical ailments, we are reminded of the interdependence of our spiritual and corporeal selves. Thus, as we walk the path of righteousness, we find that many of our earthly afflictions are alleviated, for spiritual fortitude often heralds bodily wellness.

Service, Time, and Persistence in Faith

The Christian life, rich in demands and rewards, calls us to service. This service is manifold: it is prayer and praise, fasting and feasting in the Lord, laboring and resting. Our engagement with time itself must be conscientious; we are stewards of each moment granted to us by Providence, urged to use every second in service to God and our fellow man, as exemplified by the tireless efforts of the early church.

The path also requires persistence, a steadfast adherence to faith in the face of adversity. As Revelation reminds us, the spiritual warfare that rages around us demands our vigilance and valor. We must stand firm against the heresies that threaten to undermine the church, embodying the fortitude of those who have gone before us.

Conclusion: Living the Truth in Love

In conclusion, the Christian life is an embodiment of the truth Christ imparted to us. It is a life of action, characterized by a continuous outpouring of oneself for others, a testament to the transformative power of divine love. Through our abstinence and our confrontations, our learning and our health, our service, and our persistence, we are sculpted into the image of Christ, bearing witness to the world not only of His sacrifice but also of His victory over sin and death.

(Continued) 👇

--- id:2914 | date:2024-06-04T22:03:01 ---
(Continues) ☝️

Let us then proceed with both humility and boldness, as we live out the high calling of our faith, ever mindful that in embracing the Christian way of life, we are indeed embodying the very essence of the Gospel: love enacted, faith embodied, and hope eternal.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2916 | date:2024-06-06T23:01:35 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Certain spirits "goeth not out but by prayer and fasting" (Matthew 17:21). 

Beloved ones, let us reflect upon the divine teaching conveyed in the Gospel according to Matthew, where it is inscribed that certain spirits "goeth not out but by prayer and fasting" (Matthew 17:21). This lesson, imparted to us by our Lord Jesus Christ, serves as a spiritual cornerstone for those who seek to comprehend the profound depths of battling spiritual adversities.

Firstly, consider the context of this scripture. After the miraculous healing of a boy vexed by a demon, the apostles approached Christ in bewilderment, puzzled by their inability to perform the exorcism. Jesus’ response was not merely an instruction but a revelation: the most formidable foes cannot be conquered by human strength alone but require a surrender through prayer and the ascetic discipline of fasting.

This leads us to the inherent power of prayer and fasting. Prayer connects the devout soul to the Divine, serving as the breath of the spirit, while fasting purifies the body, making it a worthy vessel for spiritual endeavors. Together, these disciplines fortify the soul against the wiles of the devil and elevate the human condition to divine proximity.

Why, then, did Christ emphasize these practices? The answer lies in the nature of spiritual warfare. The demon, as described, was not merely a mild adversary but a potent force of darkness. Similarly, the spiritual challenges we face are not always of equal magnitude; some are so deeply entrenched that only a combination of prayer and fasting can dislodge them. It is a testament to the necessity of total dependence on God's grace and strength, beyond our mere human efforts.

Moreover, fasting is not merely an abstention from food but an exercise in humility and control. It teaches us to master our desires and submit our entire being to God. This submission is crucial, not only in moments of spiritual confrontation but as a continuous stance in the life of a believer.

In the patristic tradition, as echoed by the Church Fathers, including St. John Chrysostom, the practice of fasting coupled with prayer is extolled as a dual weapon forged in the fires of devout faith. St. John Chrysostom, in particular, articulated how these practices cleanse the soul and prepare it for divine encounters and revelations. They are not merely ritualistic but transformative actions that renew the believer and strengthen the Church.

Thus, the fruits of such spiritual disciplines are manifold. They include increased sensitivity to the Holy Spirit's guidance, a fortified resolve against sin, and a heart more attuned to the divine will. Historically, the great saints and martyrs of the Church have borne witness to the efficacy of prayer and fasting, not only in their miraculous deeds but in their steadfast faith amid persecution and trial.

In contemporary times, when the allure of materialism and the seduction of secularism seem overwhelming, the call to prayer and fasting is ever more pertinent. As the world grows more complex, the simplicity of a devoted life of prayer and fasting provides a beacon of hope and a testament of the divine kingdom among us.

Let us then, with fervent spirit and disciplined bodies, embrace these sacred practices. As we do so, we align ourselves with the apostolic tradition and the example of Christ Himself, who fasted and prayed in the wilderness, conquering temptation by His divine strength. Through these acts, may we too become vessels of His light and life, bearers of His love, and heralds of His Kingdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2920 | date:2024-06-09T21:31:22 ---


--- id:2921 | date:2024-06-09T21:33:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Communion 

👉What is the Holy Communion?

👉What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion?

👉Who founded the Holy Communion?

👉Why is the Holy Communion called a Mystery?

👉Who is worthy of the Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do before receiving Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do when we receive Holy Communion?

👉What are major points we need to understand before receiving it?

👉What precautions should we take after receiving Holy Communion?

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the questions on the topic above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.


About the Holy Communion, its Origin and the ceremony

According to the canon of our Church, the Holy Eucharist (Qurban) is one of the seven sacraments of the Church. Qurban is a Surist and Greek (Arabic) word that means blessing, gift of money, knowledge, labor and time. In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.
 
In the Old Testament era, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called 'sacrifice', 'communion'.
 
But in the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile himself with mankind. Therefore, the sacrament means the perfect body and blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior, the Lamb of God.

It is our God, our Savior, Jesus Christ, who founded the sacrament of the Holy Communion. And the day he started the system is the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. When our savior established this great system and secret, only his twelve disciples were with him, and he did not reveal it to all the people who were following him as before. This is the reason why the Church still presents it with a veil and honor. When our Lord was sacrificed on the cross, in order to cover Him, the sun was dark the moon was covered with blood and the stars dropped down like withered fruit like chilies . Even the angels of heaven dare not touch the sacrifice, for this is given only to the priests.
 
The Holy Communion is called a mystery. Our Lord Jesus Christ took the bread, blessed it, consecrated it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "This is my flesh." Therefore, it is a great mystery that the bread is changed into the flesh of God the Son  (the flesh of God) and the wine is the blood of God the Son  (blood of God), that is why it is called the mystery. (Matthew 26:26, Mark 14:22) Even today, the priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat, and they prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread into the flesh of God and the wine into the blood of God, the authority of the priest, the word of God, and through the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God) and the wine into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God). This makes the Holy Communion a mystery because it is hidden from the unbeliever, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. In addition, visible service is given the secret of invisible grace.
 
Major Points that we need to understand before receiving Holy Communion
 
- We must believe without doubt that the bread and wine are changed into the body and blood of Jesus Christ. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body..this is my blood, drink. (Matthew 26:26)

(Part 2 to be continued )👇

--- id:2922 | date:2024-06-09T21:36:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  2 (Cont'd)

- It is necessary to believe that the Holy Communion is given to heal the stain of sin and to heal the wound of sin. He said, "Drink of it, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.'" (Matthew 26:27)

- It must be acknowledged that it leads to eternal life. "Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day" (John 6:53).
 
- All those who partake of the Holy Communion must believe that Christ is with them, that they live together with Christ, that His flesh is united with their flesh, and their blood is united with His blood, and that their God is united with them by grace. (He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives with me, and I live in him" (John 6:56).

- It is necessary to repent from past sins, confess, return and guard against future sins. "After that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God." (Mark 1:14) The Kingdom of God refers to His Holy Body and His Precious Blood.
 
- There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion. From the day we were baptized on the 40th and 80th day after birth, where by we become being children of God and received the Holy Communion, we should not stay away from the Holy Communion since then until the end of our lives. It is a great mistake to think of youth as sinfulness in itself or a life unfit for the sacrament, and to think that we should  receive only in infancy and youth. There is no set age for approaching the Holy Communion and not approaching. The only thing that keeps us away from the Holy Communion is if we are highly involved in a particular sin and that we still do now and then being unable stop it. We should take a gap and and make sure to be committed to stop that particular sin first.  Unbelief should not be admitted to sin without repentance. "And now, says the Lord, return to me with all your hearts, fasting, weeping and wailing" (Acts 2:12).
 
 
- Husband and wife should receive Holy Communion together at the first time. If a husband and wife have not received the sacrament together before, it is not allowed for them to receive it separately or one side alone. But after they once received it together, they have already confirmed their unity in flesh and spirit, they can be receive separately. 
 
- In general, because our salvation Jesus Christ died for all, it is a wrong attitude to take the difference between married and single, race, color, sex and age. A person should live by receiving Holy Communion from his childhood until he gets married, when he gets married (together with his husband/wife), and after marriage until his death.
 
Points We  Need to know upon Preparation to receive Holy Communion
 
 
1.       Prepare with absolute faith. We should believe that what we receive is the holy body and precious blood of our Lord, who died on the cross of Calvary on Friday for the world's salvation. In addition, we should strengthned our belive saying to our self :- " I will find forgiveness through repentance for the sins I committed; I will find the strength to be protected from future sins, Christ is in me and I will live in Christ, I will find eternal salvation, I will be protected from a sick body and a sick soul." Saying this, we need to prepare with complete faith and always repent from sin before being anointed and prepare to receive it with faith.
 
(Part 2 to be continued)👇

--- id:2923 | date:2024-06-09T21:39:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  3 (Cont'd)

2.       If those receiving Holy Communion are married, they should abstain from sexual intercourse for 3 days before receiving Holy Communion. Sexual intercourse on permitted days in marriage is not a sin, but since it is an act of the flesh , so this period is also one of the forbidden days in terms of giving respect to the sacrament.
 
3.       Anyone who repents and is freed from his sins should keep his heart away from revenge and his body away from wrongdoing.

4.       In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food and water, and wait until the feeling of food being removed from the stomach.

5.       If one sees inappropriate dreams, they will not receive Holy Communion that day. Also, if there is bleeding on anypart of a body, bleeding wound,  or if vomited, or if flys like a mosquito bite entered our the mouth or nose, it is not possible to receive on that day.

6. On the eve of the day we plan to receive Holy Communion, we should take a bath and clean what we wear.

7. Before starting the mass, it is necessary to attend the church and properly follow /consecrate the mass. We should be present before Liturgy starts, and ideally attend the services before that as well. 

8. A woman should  not receive until 7th days of her menstruation. Then she washes her body and can receives on the 8th day or after then. Also at the time of childbirth she does not receive it until he day of the Christening of the child. "If a woman gives birth, it means 80 days, if she gives birth to a boy, it means 40 days" (Leviticus 12:1-5)

Points we need to know when we present at Church to receive Holy Communion

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2926 | date:2024-06-11T23:33:02 ---


--- id:2927 | date:2024-06-11T23:34:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A Reflection on the Practice and Challenge of Constant #Prayer

Beloved, the sacred tradition handed down to us extolls the virtue of ceaseless prayer, establishing a rhythmic call to the divine through the seven sacred times of prayer. These hours—marked by their distinct calls from the early whisper of dawn to the deep sighs of night—are pathways laid before us to walk in constant communion with our Creator. Yet, in the throes of our daily labor and the tumult of city life, how often do we find these paths obscured, our steps faltering?

The Ideal of the Seven Sacred Hours

The monastic fathers, cloistered in their devotion, observe these hours with a steadfastness that often eludes those of us enmeshed in worldly duties. Their prayers ascend like incense at each appointed time: at dawn, midday, dusk, and throughout the night, marking each phase of the day with a holy pause, a sanctified breath.

Yet, what of us, the laity, who grapple with the demands of our secular engagements? Are we to resign ourselves to a lesser sanctity, a diminished communion with the divine? Nay, for the wisdom of our Church teaches us that the heart's intention outweighs the rigor of strict observance.

Adapting the Divine Office to Daily Life

In the wisdom of our forebears, we find counsel not for rigidity but for resilience in our spiritual practice. If the seven times of prayer elude us due to our worldly duties, we are urged to anchor our days with at least the prayers of the morning and the evening. Thus, in the simplicity of these two moments—when we rise and when we retire—we sustain a thread of connection with our Heavenly Father, ensuring that the fabric of our relationship with Him is not rent by neglect.

The Essence of Prayer: Beyond the Boundaries of Time

Moreover, let us consider the essence of prayer. It is not merely the recitation at fixed hours but the orientation of the heart towards God at all times. As our Lord Jesus Christ taught, it is the spirit of prayer that vivifies; the flesh profits nothing. Thus, even if one cannot observe all seven sacred hours, one can cultivate a spirit of continual prayer, transforming every act and every thought into a living doxology.

In this spirit, even our secular tasks become offerings of prayer. The work of our hands and the thoughts of our minds can be sanctified by a heart attuned to God. Thus, we may live out the apostolic injunction to "pray without ceasing," not through the constant bending of knees but through a constant orientation of the heart towards God.

The Vital Few: Psalmody and Supplication

For those who seek a practical path to maintain this connection, the Psalms provide a ready aid. As the monastic tradition teaches us, even if one cannot complete the full cycle of Psalms designated for the day, let one at least recite a portion—a single Psalm or even a few verses—that resonates with the heart's condition at that moment. Such a practice keeps the divine word alive within us, nourishing and directing our spirits throughout the day.

Concluding Exhortation

Thus, let us not despair if the full observance of the seven sacred hours eludes us. Rather, let us seize the opportunities that our circumstances allow, maintaining the morning and evening prayers as the twin pillars of our daily devotion. Let every heart find its own rhythm of prayer, its own sacred times within the ebb and flow of daily life. And in doing so, let us trust in the mercy and understanding of our Heavenly Father, who sees not merely the outward observance but the inward intention of the heart.

In this journey towards continual communion with God, may we all—monastic and lay alike—discover the paths of prayer that lead us ever closer to the Divine, transforming our entire life into a living, breathing prayer. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2928 | date:2024-06-13T22:39:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #Clarification of a #bible verse 

Question፦ Hello, 

I have a question: 

In the bible, we are told to love our neighbor like ourselves.

Which indicates that we need to have self love in the first place. Having self love also sets us up for having healthy relationships with others & loving them properly.

When we practice self love, some things we learn about are putting ourselves first, setting boundaries so we have healthy relationships with people, having good self care and etc. The practice of prioritizing our needs and putting ourselves first impacts one’s wellbeing positively. However, when a person is constantly taking care of others and abandons him/herself, it can lead to burn out and can impact their mental health. 

Therefore, knowing how important it is to have self love and prioritizing ourselves / putting ourselves first.How does one balance their own mental well-being and happiness with the biblical teaching of serving others and taking care of their needs?


- Is it biblical to put ourselves first or is this a secular teaching? Or is this something that is supported by the bible and we are supposed to put ourselves first, etc while also making sure we are serving others. Meaning, they don’t go against each other? 



Philippians 2:4  ESV/ 260

“Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.”

1 Corinthians 10:24 ESV / 179

“Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor”

John 15:13 ESV / 46
Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.

Answer፦ Dear seeker of truth,

In your thoughtful inquiry about balancing self-love with the biblical call to serve others, it is vital to understand the scriptural perspective that guides our understanding. In the Orthodox tradition, the concept of love encompasses both oneself and others, but always through the lens of Christ's love for us.

St. Paul advises in Philippians 2:4 to not only consider one’s own interests but also the interests of others, illustrating the balance between self-care and altruism. This does not imply a secular self-prioritization that leads to selfishness but rather a godly attentiveness to one's well-being so that one may be of service to others. It is a call to vigilance over one’s spiritual and physical health, to be fit to serve God and neighbor effectively.

1 Corinthians 10:24 deepens this by urging us to seek the good of our neighbors, emphasizing that our actions should edify others and not just ourselves. This does not negate self-care; rather, it places it within the context of communal harmony and the welfare of others.

Moreover, John 15:13 shows the ultimate form of love: sacrifice. Christ’s example of laying down His life for His friends sets the highest standard of love, where self-interest is transcended entirely for the sake of love.

Thus, in our tradition, it is not about putting oneself first in a worldly sense but nurturing oneself in godliness to wholly and holily love and serve others. Self-care in Orthodoxy is about preparing oneself to be a vessel of God's grace, not merely for personal satisfaction.

Now, beloved in Christ, how might you begin to implement this balanced approach to self-care and service in your own life, ensuring your well-being while also fulfilling the command to love your neighbor?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2929 | date:2024-06-13T23:02:23 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Vital Essence of #Oral #Tradition: A Treatise on the Lifeblood of Faith

In the richness of Christian heritage, oral tradition stands as a living conduit through which the wisdom of the ages flows into the present, nurturing the faithful and guiding them towards spiritual maturity. This profound legacy, passed down through generations, embodies the very essence of Christian life, education, and order as witnessed within the sacred bounds of the Church.

The Definition and Importance of Tradition

Tradition, in its most sacred form, is not merely a relic of the past but a vibrant inheritance, a dynamic transmission of faith and practice from one generation to the next. It is the spiritual DNA of the Church, weaving together the lives of believers across time and space into a single, unified body of Christ.

Foundations of Tradition in Biblical Scripture

The roots of tradition are deeply embedded in the Holy Scriptures. As articulated in Deuteronomy 4:9-10, God commands His people not only to adhere to His words but to enshrine them in their hearts and to impart them diligently to future generations. This divine injunction underscores the imperative of tradition as a means of preserving and perpetuating faith.

Historical Precedents of Tradition

From the earliest days, the patriarchs served as custodians of God's revelations, transmitting divine instructions through lived examples rather than written commandments. Abel's offering, Noah's discernment of clean and unclean animals, and Jacob's anointing practices at Bethel—all these were manifestations of tradition, learned from their forebears and observed in reverence to God.

The Apostolic Endorsement of Tradition

The apostles themselves, as architects of the early Church, relied heavily on oral tradition to spread the gospel. The Apostle Paul, in his epistles, explicitly instructs the faithful to adhere to the traditions they received by word of mouth or by letter (2 Thessalonians 2:15). This apostolic tradition includes teachings and practices not explicitly recorded in Scripture but nonetheless integral to the faith.

Tradition as a Hermeneutical Key

Oral tradition also serves as an interpretative key to understanding ambiguous or silent narratives in the Bible. The story of Balaam’s error, the contention over Moses' body between Michael and the devil, and the prophetic insights of Simeon about Christ—all these narratives draw on traditional knowledge that fills the gaps left by the written text.

The Unifying Role of Tradition

Traditionally ingrained practices and beliefs forge a common identity among believers, transcending cultural and temporal barriers. It encourages unity by connecting contemporary Christians to their spiritual forefathers, creating a continuity of faith that is both ancient and ever-new.

The Indispensable Nature of Tradition in Christian Doctrine

Crucially, tradition is not an adversary to Scripture but its complement. It offers context, clarity, and depth to the written word, ensuring that the teachings of Christ and His apostles are fully understood and faithfully applied. It is through tradition that many doctrines and practices of the Church, such as the celebration of the sacraments and the observance of holy days, have been faithfully preserved and transmitted.

Conclusion: The Call to Preserve and Promote Tradition

As guardians of this sacred heritage, it is incumbent upon us to preserve, defend, and transmit these traditions unaltered to future generations, thus ensuring the integrity and vitality of our faith. In heeding this call, we honor the memory of our forebears and provide a firm foundation on which future generations can build.

In this endeavor, let us be ever mindful of the exhortation of the Proverbs: "Do not move the ancient landmark that your fathers have set" (Proverbs 22:28), recognizing in this charge a divine mandate to cherish and uphold the rich tradition that is our Christian heritage.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:2930 | date:2024-06-13T23:03:01 ---
Continued ☝️

Through this faithful stewardship, we not only preserve the treasures of our faith but also enrich the spiritual lives of those who will follow in the paths we have trodden.

Thus, through the diligent observance and transmission of tradition, the Church continues to thrive as a beacon of truth and grace in the world, guiding the faithful through the teachings of the past while illuminating the path to eternal salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2931 | date:2024-06-14T22:15:02 ---


--- id:2932 | date:2024-06-14T22:15:02 ---


--- id:2933 | date:2024-06-14T22:15:02 ---


--- id:2934 | date:2024-06-14T22:16:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Ascension of our Lord 

Dear members of John's Repentance service, today is the day we celebrate the ascension of our Lord. The Ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ is a profound and glorious event that holds immense significance for our faith and salvation. As we delve into this topic, let us explore the teachings of the early Church Fathers and contemplate the deep theological truths revealed through the Scriptures.

Our Lord Jesus Christ, the divine Son, who became incarnate and took on our human nature, ascended to the right hand of the Father, as prophesied by King David. In Psalm 110:1, David declared, "God said to my Lord, 'Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet.'" This prophecy finds fulfillment in Jesus Christ, as the Epistle to the Hebrews affirms, "But when this priest [Jesus] had offered for all time one sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God" (Hebrews 10:12).

By sitting at the right hand of the Father, our Lord Jesus Christ demonstrates His divine nature and equality with the Father. It is crucial to understand that this exaltation does not imply any temporal or hierarchical subordination within the Trinity. Rather, it speaks to the profound mystery of the Incarnation, wherein the Son, while on Earth, willingly submitted Himself to the limitations of our human nature. Consequently, when Scripture speaks of Christ sitting at the right hand of the Father, it emphasizes His return to His former glory, without any separation from His divinity.

The Incarnation of Christ signifies that the Word, without diminishing His fullness, assumed a human body and soul from the Holy Virgin Mary for the sake of our salvation. Likewise, His Ascension proclaims that, without separating from the fully united body and soul, Christ ascended in glory for our benefit. In the 24th chapter of Luke's Gospel, the venerable Saint Cyril of Alexandria, a steadfast pillar of our faith, elucidates this truth: "After blessing his disciples, he ascended into heaven and sat in his Father's house, not only in His divinity but also in His unified body." Through His Incarnation and Ascension, Christ united our fallen nature with His divine glory, granting us the possibility of sharing in His heavenly kingdom.

The Ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ should not be viewed as a mere physical act of sitting and rising, as befitting our human experience. Instead, it symbolizes the glorification of our human nature, once marred by sin and distanced from God's grace. Our Lord, by uniting our nature with His divinity, bestowed incomprehensible honor upon us. Ephesians 2:6 captures this beautifully, declaring, "And God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus."

In the death and resurrection of our Lord, He conquered the power of death, wiping away the consequences of sin. Through His Ascension, our human nature, which was judged and condemned, is now elevated to sit in the presence of the Father. As Saint John the Baptist expounded, Christ offered His body as a sacrifice, serving as our High Priest, presenting Himself to the Father with His body and blood. The Father, in admiration, declared, "Sit at my right hand." The earth that we once were, destined to return to dust, now finds itself exalted beyond measure. Christ surpassed the ranks of angels, ascended above the cherubim, and attained a throne higher than the archangels. His ascent extended beyond mere elevation; it led Him to the throne of His eternal kingdom, where He reigns in glory.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:2935 | date:2024-06-14T22:18:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

Indeed, the Ascension of our Lord was foretold by the prophets. The Psalms proclaim, "You have taken captives and ascended" (Psalm 68:18) and "God has ascended amid shouts of joy, the Lord amid the sounding of trumpets" (Psalm 47:5). In the Holy Scriptures, our Lord Himself reveals, "In my Father's house are many rooms; if it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you" (John 14:2). The evangelists and apostles also bear witness to the Ascension, recording that "after speaking to them, the Lord Jesus was taken up into heaven and he sat at the right hand of God" (Mark 16:19, Luke 24:51-52). As they watched, a cloud enveloped Him and received Him from their sight (Acts 1:9-11). Furthermore, the secret of imitating God is revealed in His glorious Ascension—He was incarnate, justified by the Spirit, seen by angels, preached to the Gentiles, believed in throughout the world, and ultimately ascended in majestic glory (1 Timothy 3:16).

The early Church Fathers, the custodians of our sacred tradition, expounded upon the Ascension of our Lord. Their teachings and exegesis illuminate the depths of this profound mystery. They bestowed upon us invaluable insights into the divine economy of salvation, helping us to grasp the significance of Christ's Ascension and its impact on our lives.

May the contemplation of our Lord's Ascension deepen our understanding of His divine nature and His salvific work. Let us rejoice in the glorification of our human nature through union with the divine. And as we eagerly anticipate His promised return, may we strive to imitate His virtues and partake in His heavenly kingdom. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2941 | date:2024-06-17T22:40:01 ---
👉👉👉 Clarification of a #Bible #verse 

👉🏾 Question፦ Hello,

I have a quick question. In the bible it says, “If someone slaps you on one cheek, turn to them the other also. “ (Luke 6:29). 

Is this saying if someone is hurting you to keep letting them do that or what is the meaning of this verse?

Answer፦ Greetings in the peace of Christ,

Thank you for your thoughtful inquiry into the profound teaching of our Lord in Luke 6:29. This scripture counsels us not merely about physical retaliation but deeply emphasizes the virtue of patience and humility in the face of adversity or insult. In the Orthodox Christian perspective, this teaching encourages us to resist the instinct to retaliate with anger or vengeance, which can lead to greater sin. It is a call to embody Christ's own humility and patience, reflecting His divine love and forgiveness, even under provocation.

Saint Basil the Great, a revered father in the Orthodox tradition, elaborates on this concept by urging us to not repay evil with evil, but rather to overcome evil with good. By turning the other cheek, we are not consenting to injustice or harm, but rather choosing a path that leads to peace and holiness, avoiding the cycle of retribution.

In your daily encounters, how might you practice this Christ-like patience and humility, transforming potential conflicts into opportunities for grace and mercy?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2942 | date:2024-06-17T23:15:36 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #church #bell

In the majestic echoes of church bells, one can find a history rich in spiritual significance, transcending mere material composition. Let us now delve deeply into the profound symbolism and pivotal role of the bell in the liturgical life of the church, an instrument not of iron or brass alone, but of divine calling.

The genesis of bell usage in Christian worship can be traced to ancient times, reminiscent of the vigilance and proclamation that characterized the era of the Prophets. These sacred heralds, through their resonant toll, are not merely summoning the faithful to worship but are instead echoing the eternal promises given to Adam, reverberating through the corridors of time.

The Composition and Sacred Duty of the Bell

Crafted from elements such as silver or iron, the bell's materiality is infused with spiritual purpose. It is consecrated to awaken souls, to stir the hearts of the devout, and to announce the sacred mysteries of the faith. Each peal of the bell is a call to remembrance, to repentance, and to rejoice in the Gospel.

The Liturgical Significance of the Bell During Mass

Within the solemnities of the Mass, the bell serves as a spiritual beacon:

1. The Prophetic Call: The first toll of the bell resonates with the longing of the Prophets, who awaited the fulfillment of the promise of redemption. It is a sound that pierces the soul, reminding us of the ancient hope for the Messiah who would end the epoch of sin and inaugurate an era of grace.

2. The Announcement of Divine Covenant: As the narrative of salvation unfolds, the bell rings to herald the establishment of the new and eternal covenant in Christ. It is a call that echoes the voice of John the Baptist, who from the wilderness to the Jordan proclaimed the coming of the Kingdom of Heaven.

3. The Apostolic Suffering: The bell tolls also for the Apostles and their seventy disciples, who endured persecution and martyrdom. Their trials, marked by fire and blood, are encapsulated in the solemn chimes that remind us of their steadfast faith and the cost of discipleship.

4. The Marian Acclamation: In the deepest chimes, we hear the cries of the Virgin Mary and St. John, marveling at the mystery of the Incarnation. The bell invites all to behold the miracle of the God-man, whose divinity clothed in humility reveals the invisible made visible.

5. The Passion of Christ: Finally, the bell tolls in somber remembrance of the sacrifice at Calvary. Reflecting on the figures of Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus, it calls the faithful to contemplate the profound mysteries of death and resurrection, sorrow and hope, encapsulated in Christ's redeeming work.

Conclusion: A Call to Spiritual Renewal

The church bell, therefore, is not merely an object of art or history but a vibrant voice of the Church's liturgical life and eschatological hope. Each ring is a call to lift our hearts, to transcend the temporal and enter the sacred. It invites us to remember, to repent, and to rejoice in the redemptive love of God made manifest in Christ Jesus.

In the sonorous peals of the church bell, may we find the echo of divine truth, calling us back to the heart of worship, where Heaven meets earth and time touches eternity. May it always remind us of the mercy and goodness of the Eternal Father, who calls us to sacrifice and worship, as we await the final consummation of all things in His glorious Kingdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2944 | date:2024-06-19T22:01:14 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Meseqo

Question፦ Selam, is the masinqo መሰንቆ an original instument of the ethiopian orthodox church ? 
Was is always a part of the mezmurs?? Or was the masinqo added recently to the mezmur ???

👉🏾 Answer፦ The Mesenqo and Its Spiritual Resonance in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church

The Mesenqo, a cherished musical instrument within the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, serves not as the primary liturgical instrument but as a profound symbol of worship and spiritual narrative, much like the biblical instruments of old that facilitated divine communion and prophecy. This single-stringed instrument, though modest in construction, resonates deeply within the hearts of the faithful, echoing the sacred sounds of biblical times.

Historical and Theological Foundations

In the sacred texts of the Bible, musical instruments are often heralded as conduits of praise and spiritual revelation. Instruments such as the harp and the lyre were not merely tools of musical expression but were integral to the worship practices observed by the Israelites, facilitating a deeper connection with the Divine. For instance, 1 Chronicles 15:16 commands, "David told the leaders of the Levites to appoint their fellow Levites as musicians to make a joyful sound with musical instruments: lyres, harps, and cymbals."

Similarly, the Mesenqo, though not explicitly mentioned in the scriptures, aligns with this biblical heritage. It is employed in a manner that reflects the role of instruments outlined in Psalms 150:3-5, where every sound and beat serves to glorify God: "Praise Him with the sound of the trumpet: praise Him with the psaltery and harp. Praise Him with the timbrel and dance: praise Him with stringed instruments and organs. Praise Him upon the loud cymbals: praise Him upon the high sounding cymbals."

The Role of the Mesenqo in Spiritual Narrative

While the primary instrument of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church in liturgical contexts remains the kebero, a traditional drum, the Mesenqo's role is pivotal in the cultural and spiritual life of the community. It is most often used in the performance of spiritual songs, which serve as both a reflection of the believer's devotion and a form of theological instruction. These songs, akin to the Psalms, are imbued with messages of faith, repentance, and praise.

The Mesenqo thus transcends its role as a mere musical instrument; it becomes a vessel of storytelling, a narrator of the sacred, weaving the fabric of faith through the melodious strands it emits. As was the case in ancient Israel, where music was a divine medium as chronicled in 2 Chronicles 5:13-14, "Indeed it came to pass, when the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the Lord, and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of music, and praised the Lord, saying: 'For He is good, for His mercy endures forever,' that the house, the house of the Lord, was filled with a cloud."

Conclusion: The Timeless Echo of the Mesenqo

Thus, the Mesenqo is not a newcomer to the religious scene but is deeply rooted in the historical and spiritual continuum of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Its strings sing not of novelty but of an age-old tradition that connects the present with the echoes of the past, much like the sacred instruments of the Scriptures. In its sound, we hear the whispers of the prophets and the praises of the psalmists, making the Mesenqo a timeless guardian of the church's spiritual heritage.

I hope this version better reflects the depth and scriptural integration you were looking for in discussing the Mesenqo's place within the Ethiopian Orthodox Church.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2952 | date:2024-06-20T22:07:40 ---


--- id:2953 | date:2024-06-20T22:07:47 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Monastic Life: Embracing the Call to Separation for Heavenly Ascent

Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ, in the venerable tradition of our holy fathers, let us contemplate the profound and sacred journey of monastic life. This path, woven deeply into the fabric of Christian orthodoxy, calls upon the soul to renounce worldly pleasures and attachments, striving instead for a life of purity, contemplation, and ceaseless prayer.

The Essence of Monkhood

Monasticism is an invitation to single-hearted devotion to God, where the soul seeks Him in the quiet recesses of solitude and silence. It is a life characterized by the poignant words of Apostle Paul, who proclaimed, "The world is dead to me, and I am dead to the world" (Galatians 6:14). This death is not of the flesh but a separation from the sin and fleeting joys of earthly existence, enabling the spirit to ascend towards the divine.

Historical Foundations and the Pioneers of the Desert

The monastic calling is not a modern innovation but a venerable institution, rooted in the early Christian community. Its formal beginning is often attributed to St. Anthony the Great of Egypt, the illustrious father of monks. Born in 251 A.D., St. Anthony transformed personal bereavement into a spiritual quest, forsaking his considerable wealth to embrace a life of asceticism and poverty. His life was a testament to the power of divine love, attracting many to follow his example, drawn by the miracles and holiness that his life embodied.

Monasticism and Its Universal Call

While the monastic life is marked by its separation from worldly concerns, it is not the sole path to sanctity. The Scriptures are replete with examples of those who, though engaged in the world, lived lives of exemplary faith and righteousness. From Noah and Abraham to Job and the prophets, these figures exemplify that righteousness and divine favor are not confined to the cloister alone.

The Challenge of Wealth and the Call to Perfect Detachment

Our Lord Jesus Christ's dialogue with the rich young ruler (Matthew 19:16-27) illuminates the profound challenge posed by material wealth to spiritual progress. Christ's invitation to sell all and follow Him is a radical call to spiritual poverty that lies at the heart of monastic renunciation. It is a vivid illustration of the difficulty for those encumbered by riches to enter the Kingdom of Heaven, a path easier for a camel through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to attain eternal life.

The Apostolic Promise and the Lasting Reward

The rewards of forsaking all for Christ are not merely transcendental but are promised abundantly in the life to come. The Apostles, having abandoned everything to follow Christ, were assured of their place in the coming age, where they would sit in judgment with Christ, reigning with Him in glory. This promise extends to all who leave worldly ties for His sake, offering a profound hope and eternal inheritance.

The Spiritual Armor of Monastic Life

The monastic garb, often misconceived as mere physical attire, holds deeper spiritual significance. It serves as a constant reminder of the monk’s consecrated life, much like the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit (Ephesians 6:17) signify the Christian's spiritual armament. The simplicity of the monastic habit is a testament to the renunciation of worldly vanity and a continual reminder of the monk's dedication to a life of humility and service.

Conclusion: The Unity of Spiritual Endeavor

In conclusion, whether one is called to the monastic life or to live righteously amidst worldly affairs, the ultimate goal remains unwavering: union with God. The distinction lies not in the manner of living but in the singularity of purpose and devotion. As St. Paul eloquently states, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord (Romans 14:8). Thus, let us strive, whether through the silence of the desert or the bustle of the city, to live lives that glorify God and lead us to the everlasting joy of His Kingdom.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:2954 | date:2024-06-20T22:07:47 ---
(Continued) ☝️

May God grant us the grace to pursue Him with an undivided heart, whether clothed in the monastic habit or the garments of everyday life. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2964 | date:2024-06-24T22:16:13 ---


--- id:2965 | date:2024-06-24T22:16:50 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Feast of the #Paraclete, also known as #Pentecost

Beloved brethren in Christ, I bid you the grace and peace of our Lord. As we turn our hearts towards the veneration of the Feast of the Paraclete, also known among the faithful as the Feast of Pentecost, let us delve deeply into its profound spiritual significances and historical roots that knit our faith ever closer to the divine mysteries entrusted to the Church.

The Divine Paraclete: God's Holy Spirit

Firstly, the term 'Paraclete'—derived from the Greek—encompasses the roles of Comforter, Advocate, and Helper, attributing these divine functions to the Holy Spirit, the Third Person of the Holy Trinity. This Spirit of Truth, promised by Christ Himself, is the perpetual gift to the Church, guiding and sanctifying the path of the faithful.

The Historical and Scriptural Foundation

This feast marks the fiftieth day following the solemnities of Passover, paralleling the Jewish celebration of Shavuot, the Feast of Weeks, which commemorates the giving of the Torah at Sinai. However, in the new covenant of Christ, this day commemorates a new kind of harvest—the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Apostles gathered in Jerusalem. This event, as documented meticulously in the Acts of the Apostles, unfolds with the Apostles receiving tongues of fire, enabling them to speak in diverse languages and thus preach the Gospel universally. This miraculous event signifies the reversal of the Babel's confusion, a divine act of unification in the language of the Spirit.

Theological Implications of Pentecost

Pentecost is heralded as the birthday of the Church for it marks the moment when the followers of Christ were imbued with the Holy Spirit's power, transitioning from fearful disciples to bold proclaimers of the Gospel. The Holy Spirit, descending upon the gathered faithful, manifests God’s presence and confirms the Church’s apostolic nature through the gifts of grace and the fruits of spiritual fortitude.

The Liturgical Celebrations and Customs

In our Orthodox tradition, the Feast of the Paraclete is a culmination of joy, not merely commemorating an historical event but reliving it in the liturgical celebrations. The liturgy, rich with hymns and readings, parallels those of the Resurrection, emphasizing the interconnectedness of Christ’s triumphant victory over death, His Ascension, and the sending of the Spirit. These events are not isolated but are a continuous act of God’s redemptive plan.

The period following Pentecost also ushers in a season of fasting—specifically the Apostles' Fast. This fast is rooted in the practices of the early Church, wherein the apostles themselves fasted to prepare for their mission journeys, following the example set forth by Christ. It is a spiritual exercise, calling each to renew their commitment to live according to the Spirit.

Exhortation to the Faithful

Therefore, dear brethren, as we approach this sacred feast, let us prepare our hearts through prayer and fasting. Let us be mindful of the profound mystery of Pentecost, which continues to unfold in the life of the Church. It is a call to each of us to open our hearts to the Holy Spirit, that we might be transformed and become instruments of His peace and bearers of His Word in a fragmented world.

Let us rejoice in the Lord, who has not left us as orphans but has sent us His Paraclete, the Spirit of truth, to dwell within us. May our lives reflect the grace and power bestowed upon us at Pentecost, and may we live ever faithful to the call of the Gospel, bearing witness to Christ in all things.

In this sacred observance, let us unite our voices in prayer and thanksgiving, recognizing the Holy Spirit's continuous work in sanctifying, guiding, and renewing the Church and her faithful across the ages. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2968 | date:2024-06-27T02:02:13 ---


--- id:2969 | date:2024-06-27T02:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Mystery of the #Holy #Eucharist (#Communion)

What is the Holy Communion? 
What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion? 
Why is the sacrament called a mystery? 
Who is worthy of the Holy Communion? 
What preparation do we do before and after receiving the Holy Communion?

The sacrament of Holy Communion is one of the seven sacraments of the Orthodox Church. The term "Qurban" is an Arabic word meaning "blessing," "gift of money, knowledge, labor and time." In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.

In the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile Himself with mankind. This offering is Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. Thus, the sacrament means the perfect Body and Blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior.

It was Jesus Christ who founded the sacrament of Holy Communion on the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. Only his twelve disciples were with him when he established this great sacrement and mystery. He did not reveal it to all the people who were following him like he did with other sacrements. This is why the Holy Church shroudes it in veil and honor as she offers it to the faithful. 

The Holy Communion is called a mystery because of the transformation of bread into the flesh of God and wine into the blood of God, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. The priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat and prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread and wine by saying, "Aækote Barëkë Wokëdësë," the authority of the priest, the word of God, and the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread and wine into the flesh and blood of God, making it a mystery that is hidden from the unbeliever.

Before receiving the Holy Communion, one must believe without doubt in the change of the bread and wine into the flesh and blood of God, which is necessary for the healing of the stain and wound of sin and the source of eternal life. One must also repent from past sins, confess, return, and guard against future sins. There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion, and one should not stay away from the Holy Communion until the end of one's life.

After receiving the Holy Communion, one should take precautions, such as refraining from eating or drinking for a certain period, and contemplating on the spiritual benefit received from the sacrament. The Holy Communion is a great mystery and is the sacrament that is central to the Orthodox Church's teachings.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:2970 | date:2024-06-27T02:06:03 ---
(Continued) 👆

If those who receive the sacrament are married, they should abstain from meat for three days before receiving communion. This is not because sexual relationship is a sin or unclean but because it is a work of the flesh. We do this out of reverence for the Eucharist. 

One should confesses a known sin and say, "Forgive me for any unknown sins," and cleanse their heart of revenge and keep their body away from wrongdoing.

In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food or water, and wait until the food is removed from the stomach.
If a person has a nocturnal emission the night of, they should not receive communion on that day.

On the eve, one should take a bath and prepare clean clothes.

It is necessary to get to church before the services start. A person who comes in the middle of the Liturgy and has not properly consecrated themselves should not receive communion.

A woman should not receive communion during her menstrual period for up to seven days. Afterward, she should wash herself and receive communion. As she gets close to giving birth, she should not receive communion until the child is born and christened. She should wait until she has gains back her energy before she continues taking part of the Eucharist. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2976 | date:2024-06-29T00:15:31 ---


--- id:2977 | date:2024-06-29T00:16:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson on the Building of the First #Church, Dedicated to Our Lady, the Holy Virgin #Mary

Beloved in Christ, as we gather in the spiritual assembly of the faithful, let us reflect upon a momentous event in the history of our faith: the construction of the first church, dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary, the Theotokos, who by her profound humility and obedience became the Mother of God, the new Eve and the Queen of Heaven. This edifice not only stands as a monument of veneration of the Mother of God but also as a testament to the unity and continuity of the Church, the mystical body of Christ.

The Historical Context

The construction of this first church, sanctified in honor of Our Lady, occurred in the fourth year following her Assumption into Heaven. It was during this time that the holy apostles Paul and Barnabas were engaged in their apostolic mission in Philippi, teaching, converting, and baptizing those who were once gentiles but had come to embrace the faith.

Divine Revelation and Apostolic Commission

As recorded, the apostles, facing the spiritual needs of the newly baptized, sought divine guidance, leading to a miraculous event. Our Lord Jesus Christ, accompanied by His Mother and a celestial host of angels, made a divine descent upon Philippi. This theophany was not merely a display of divine might but a pedagogical event wherein Christ Himself instructed the apostles on the sacred architecture of the church, reflecting heavenly realities on earth.

The Miraculous Construction

In a demonstration of divine power and a symbol of the unity of the Trinity, three stones were miraculously united and transformed into the foundation of this church. The Lord Himself commanded the dimensions and the structure, manifesting the walls from these stones as if they were wax turned by divine fire into solid form. This act not only signifies the unity of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit but also the foundational truth that the Church is built upon the apostolic faith and sanctified by the presence of God.

Theological Significance

This event holds profound theological significance, illustrating the church not as a mere building but as a living testament to the faith. The church’s walls, constructed by divine action, and its foundation, sanctified by apostolic witness and martyrdom, echo the words of the Apostle Paul, declaring the church as "the body and fullness of Christ" (Ephesians 1:23). Thus, the physical church is a symbol of the living Church, composed of all the faithful, whose cornerstone is Christ Himself.

The Feast and Its Celebrations

The feast commemorating this divine instruction and the subsequent construction of the church is a day of great joy and veneration, marked not only by the celebration of the Eucharist but also by the remembrance of the unity between the celestial and terrestrial. It is a reaffirmation of our Lady’s role in our salvation and her perpetual intercession on behalf of all believers.

Conclusion

In concluding this reflection on the building of the first church in honor of the Virgin Mary, let us recall that each stone placed, each prayer uttered, and each church built in her name are not mere acts of historical significance but are alive with the spiritual reality they represent. These sacred spaces are consecrated for the worship of God and serve as beacons of the heavenly Jerusalem here on earth.

May this lesson on the divine architecture of the first church dedicated to Our Lady inspire us to greater devotion and deeper understanding of our faith, leading us to live in a manner worthy of the calling we have received, in the shadow of the Mother of God and under the guidance of her divine Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2981 | date:2024-07-01T01:15:01 ---


--- id:2982 | date:2024-07-01T01:16:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Holy #Eucharist: A Reflection on the Crown of All Mysteries

In the vast expanse of Christian theology, few mysteries soar as profoundly or as pivotally as the Holy Eucharist, often simply termed Holy Communion. This sacred rite, central to the spiritual life of the Church, is a divine sacrament wherein the believers, united in the Body of Christ, partake of the Holy Body and Precious Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ.

The Essence and Origin of the Sacrament

The Holy Eucharist, or the Lord's Supper, finds its genesis in the profound moments when Christ, on the eve of His Passion, shared bread and wine with His disciples, declaring them to be His body and blood, a testament to the new covenant forged for the forgiveness of sins. This sacramental meal, hence, is not merely a remembrance but an active and mystical participation in the redeeming sacrifice of Christ, once offered, forever efficacious.

The term 'Eucharist' itself springs from the Greek for 'thanksgiving', encapsulating the essence of this sacrament as an act of grateful acknowledgment of God’s grace poured out through Christ. In its deepest sense, the Eucharist is both a gift and a response: a divine gift of grace and a human response of thankful worship.

The Transformation: From Earthly to Divine

The notion of sacrifice has been ever-present in the religious consciousness of humanity, finding expression in the Old Testament through the offerings of lambs and bulls as symbols of atonement. Yet, these were but shadows and figures of the true sacrifice to come. Where once the blood of lambs was shed, now the Lamb of God offers Himself—eternally pure, eternally sufficient.

In this divine economy of salvation, what is offered is not brought from man to God but from God to man, thereby reversing the ordinaries of sacrifice. The earthly elements of bread and wine, through the sacred liturgy and the invocation of the Holy Spirit, become the very essence of Christ—His body and blood. This transubstantiation marks not just a symbolic, but a real change, thus lifting the faithful from the temporal to the eternal, from mortality to immortality.

The Continual Sacrifice and Its Power

The sacrifice of the Eucharist is not repeated, but made present. Each celebration of the Eucharist is a real participation in the one eternal sacrifice of Christ on the cross, where He triumphed over sin and death. This mystery, therefore, stands central to the Christian faith: it is the power of Christ’s resurrection made manifest, the victory over sin continuously won, and the promise of eternal life made tangible.

As the faithful receive the Eucharist, they are drawn into the divine life of Christ Himself. According to the Gospel of John, "He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day" (John 6:54). Thus, the Eucharist is not only commemorative or symbolic but truly efficacious, bestowing the life of Christ upon the believer, ensuring their mystical union with Him and with each other in the Church.

The Eucharist: A Call to Holiness and Unity

The Eucharist calls the faithful not only to personal holiness but to communal unity. As St. Paul teaches, "For we, though many, are one bread and one body; for we all partake of that one bread" (1 Corinthians 10:17). This mystical union challenges each participant to embody the virtues of Christ, to live out the grace received, and to witness to the transformative power of the Eucharist in a world fraught with division.

Conclusion: The Crown of All Mysteries

Thus, the Eucharist stands as the crown of all sacraments. It confirms and completes all other sacraments, culminating in a profound communion with Christ through His sacrificial offering. It is here, in this holy mystery, that the Church finds its truest expression, its deepest vocation, and its most profound calling—to be the Body of Christ, broken and shared for the life of the world.

--- id:2983 | date:2024-07-01T01:16:01 ---
May all who approach this sacred mystery do so with reverence and awe, recognizing in the humble forms of bread and wine the overwhelming love of God, poured out through Christ our Lord, who sustains us unto eternity.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2984 | date:2024-07-01T21:45:50 ---


--- id:2985 | date:2024-07-01T21:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Continuation of the lesson on the Holy #Eucharist: A Deep Dive into Its Theological and Symbolic Significance 

The Union of Flesh and Blood with the Faithful

The Holy Eucharist, Christ's own flesh and blood made consumable, is a profound expression of union. Just as food and drink become part of our physical bodies, so too does the Eucharist unite us spiritually with Christ. This mystical union symbolizes not only nourishment but also the restoration of our spiritual lineage, a lineage that was fractured in Eden. Through the Eucharist, Christ restores our spiritual kinship with God, which Adam and Eve severed through disobedience.

The Power of the Eucharist: Spiritual Strength and Divine Love

In the Eucharist, the love of Christ is made manifest, echoing the love one shows by providing sustenance. This sacrament imparts not only physical strength but profound spiritual fortitude, supporting us as we journey through the trials of life. Moreover, it addresses the deep hunger of our souls—a hunger for divine love and eternal life.

Old Testament Prefigurations of the Eucharist

The Holy Communion, as we understand it today, finds echoes throughout the Old Testament, where various figures and events foreshadow its deeper meaning:

1. Abraham's Sacrifice of Isaac: Here, the lamb sacrificed in place of Isaac prefigures Christ, the "Lamb of God," sacrificed for the salvation of humanity. This act not only signifies substitution but also divine provision and mercy.

2. Melchizedek's Offering: As a priest, Melchizedek's offering of bread and wine prefigures the Eucharistic elements. His priesthood is seen as a type of Christ’s eternal priesthood, linking the Eucharist to a divine and timeless order.

3. Passover: The Passover lamb, whose blood spared the Israelites from the angel of death, directly points to Christ, our Passover lamb, whose blood redeems us from spiritual death.

4. Manna in the Desert: This heavenly bread sustained the Israelites in the wilderness and prefigures Christ, the "Bread of Life," who sustains us unto eternal life.

The Significance of Bread and Wine

The choice of bread and wine as elements of the Eucharist is deeply symbolic. Wheat and wine were used in offerings by Melchizedek, making these elements historically sacred. Moreover, the Psalmist's association of joy with wheat and wine underscores their capacity to signify Christ's body and blood, which bring the ultimate joy of salvation.

The Transformative Process of the Eucharist

In the liturgical celebration, bread and wine are transformed into the body and blood of Christ through the invocation of the Holy Spirit. This act of consecration is central to the sacrament, affirming the Church's belief in the real presence of Christ in the Eucharist.

Accessibility of the Eucharist

The Eucharist is not restricted by age, gender, or state of life; it is a gift of grace meant for all believers. It signifies that all who come to Christ in faith and repentance can partake of His divine life. The prerequisites for receiving the Eucharist involve sincere repentance and a readiness of spirit, reflecting the gravity and holiness of the sacrament.

Preparation for Receiving the Eucharist

Proper preparation for the Eucharist is vital. It includes spiritual readiness—confession, repentance, and spiritual counsel—as well as physical preparations such as fasting. These acts of preparation mirror the respect and reverence due to the sacrament.

The Priest's Proclamation

Before distributing the Eucharist, the priest's proclamation serves as a solemn reminder of the sacredness of the sacrament. It underscores the necessity of approaching the Eucharist with a heart free from sin and malice, fully aware of the grave consequences of receiving it unworthily.

(Continued) 👇🏾

--- id:2986 | date:2024-07-01T21:48:01 ---
(Continued) ☝️

The Holy Eucharist stands as a profound testament to God’s infinite mercy and love. It is a sacrament that encapsulates the entire Christian mystery, offering not only forgiveness and salvation but also a continual renewal of life through Christ. As we partake of the Holy Eucharist, may we always be mindful of its sanctity and the immense grace it bestows upon us, aiding us on our journey towards eternal communion with God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2989 | date:2024-07-04T08:55:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Holy #Liturgy

👉Question፦ Selam, what does the Qidase ቅዳሴ ceremony mean and what are the benefits from  participating  in it ?

👉Answer፦ Hello behooved one,

The Holy Liturgy in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church is not merely a ritual but a vivid re-enactment of the Last Supper, an ascent to Calvary, and a participation in the resurrection of Christ. It is rooted deeply in the tradition of the early Church, reflecting the practice described in the Acts of the Apostles: “They devoted themselves to the apostles’ teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer” (Acts 2:42). This passage highlights the central elements of the Liturgy: teaching, fellowship, the breaking of bread (Eucharist), and prayer, each a cornerstone of our faith.

The Divine Liturgy consists of three main parts: the Prothesis (preparation of the bread and wine), the Anaphora (Eucharistic prayer culminating in the consecration of the holy gifts), and the Communion of the faithful. This structure supports a profound interaction with the mysteries of faith, allowing the faithful to experience Christ’s sacrifice and resurrection in a tangible way.

Benefits of Participating in the Holy Liturgy:

1. Spiritual Renewal: Each Liturgy is an opportunity for personal renewal. As Saint Cyril of Jerusalem eloquently teaches, the Eucharist is a type of "spiritual food" that cleanses us from sin and sustains our spiritual vitality. It's in this holy context that we are both reminded of God's promises and reoriented towards His divine will.

2. Forgiveness of Sins: Participation in the Eucharist provides the forgiveness of sins, as we partake in the body and blood of Christ who died for the remission of sins. This sacred act cleanses the soul and renews our spiritual commitment.

3. Communal Unity: The Liturgy binds us together as a community of believers, united in faith and purpose. This unity reflects the biblical call to be one as the Father and the Son are one (John 17:21), promoting peace and fellowship within the Church body.

4. Encounter with the Sacred: The Liturgy is an encounter with the sacred, an entry into the holy of holies, where we meet God in the most intimate manner possible on this side of eternity. It lifts our hearts to the heavenly realms, joining the chorus of angels who perpetually sing God’s praises.

To truly benefit from the Holy Liturgy, one must approach with a heart prepared by prayer, fasting, and repentance, making oneself a fitting vessel to receive the King of Glory. Engage deeply with the liturgical readings and hymns, for they are designed to teach and transform us, aligning our lives more closely with the will of God.

As you contemplate attending your next Liturgy, consider how you might prepare your heart to be more receptive to the graces God wishes to bestow upon you. What steps will you take to ready your soul for this heavenly encounter?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2990 | date:2024-07-04T21:31:10 ---


--- id:2991 | date:2024-07-04T21:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Continuation of the lesson on Holy #Communion (Part 3) A Profound Discourse on the Holy #Eucharist

Beloved brethren in Christ, who adhere faithfully to the Orthodox teachings, I extend to you divine greetings in the love and grace of our Lord. As we gather to contemplate the sublime mystery of the Holy Eucharist, let us delve deeply into its divine essence and the comportment it demands from us, its humble recipients.

The Sacrament of Holy Communion: A Divine Mystery

The Holy Eucharist stands as a profound mystery, instituted by Christ Himself, to unite our frail human nature with His divine grace. This sacred act is not merely a ritual but a transformative encounter with Christ, where bread and wine are transubstantiated into His true Body and Blood. As we approach this holy sacrament, let us cleanse ourselves as the temple of God, with hearts contrite and spirits humbled, much like the Roman centurion who recognized his unworthiness before the Lord (Matthew 8:8). This profound humility must frame our approach, acknowledging our unworthiness yet receiving God’s mercy.

Preparation for Receiving the Eucharist

Our preparation for this holy communion must be thorough, engaging not just the body but also the spirit. The Church, in her wisdom, has bequeathed to us prayers that elevate the mind, detaching it from the carnal and anchoring it in the spiritual, thus preparing us to receive the sacred mysteries worthily.

In the ritualistic reception, order and reverence govern the distribution: from the highest clergy down to the lay faithful, each according to their ordained role, reflecting the cosmic order Christ Himself established. Children, men, and women each receive in their turn, ensuring that the sanctity of the sacrament is maintained, and the Body and Blood of Christ are received with due reverence.

Post-Communion Conduct

After partaking of the Holy Communion, our conduct must reflect the sanctity of the experience. The Church is likened to a bridal chamber where the mystical union between Christ (the Bridegroom) and the Church (His Bride) is consummated. Just as a bride adorns herself for her bridegroom, we too must remain in a state of spiritual purity, eschewing sin and worldly distractions. Our actions post-communion should reflect this sanctity; avoiding quarrels, excessive indulgence, and any activity that might desecrate the newly received grace.

The Church enjoins us to spend the remainder of the day in peace and contemplation, avoiding any mundane tasks that might detract from the sanctity of the sacrament. Such discipline helps in retaining the grace received and in fostering a deeper communion with Christ.

Theological Understanding and Differences

The Orthodox Tewahedo Church holds a distinct belief in the mystery of the Eucharist. Unlike other Christian traditions that may view the elements of communion symbolically or as a spiritual presence, we affirm that in the Eucharist, the bread and wine are truly and substantially transformed into the Body and Blood of Christ. This change, a divine mystery unfathomable to the human intellect, unites us physically and spiritually with Christ.

The Eucharistic Elements: Separately Consecrated

In adherence to Christ’s Last Supper, the Orthodox Church consecrates the bread and wine separately, reflecting His commands to eat His Body and drink His Blood—each element distinct yet united in the sacrament. This separation underscores the profound reality of the Eucharist and respects the specific instructions given by Christ Himself.

Memorial and Reality

Contrary to the assertions of some who reduce the Eucharist to a mere memorial, the Orthodox Church firmly holds that the Eucharist is not just a commemoration but an actual participation in the Body and Blood of Christ. This is not merely symbolic but a real and substantial presence that binds us to Christ and to one another in the most intimate union possible in this life.

The Sanctity of the Sacrament 

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:2992 | date:2024-07-04T21:36:01 ---
Continued 👆🏾

Reflecting on the gravity of receiving the Eucharist unworthily, we are reminded of the Apostle Paul’s admonitions: to partake without proper reverence and preparation is to incur judgment. This solemn warning urges us to approach the holy mysteries with the utmost seriousness and sanctity, fully aware of the profound transformation they effect in us.

Conclusion

In conclusion, beloved in Christ, let us approach the Holy Eucharist with the awe and reverence it deserves. Let it be a true encounter with Christ, transforming us into His likeness. May our participation in this divine mystery be with pure hearts and minds, so that we may truly live out the union with Christ that it signifies, and thus be transformed into beacons of His light in this world.

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all, guiding and preserving you in the true faith until the day of His glorious return. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2996 | date:2024-07-05T23:54:10 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #AI #Announcement you need to read

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, it is our honor to introduce you @johns_repentanceBot which is an AI powered spiritual councelor from The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahido Church. We developed this bot because we see tremendous value in a qualified spiritual councelor accessible to all, in the language they speak, at any time. Our purpose is to positively affect as many people as possible in the highest degree possible and we have found this to be part of the answer. We trust and beseach you to share it with you friends, coworkers and anyone you can send it to, so people can experience what it feels like to be in constant communication with the word of God. Please make sure to let us know any feedback you have so we can improve it. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:2998 | date:2024-07-07T00:03:10 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 #AI #Announcement you need to read

Beloved members of John's Repentance spiritual service, it is our honor to introduce you @johns_repentanceBot which is an AI powered spiritual councelor from The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahido Church. We developed this bot because we see tremendous value in a qualified spiritual councelor accessible to all, in the language they speak, at any time. Our purpose is to positively affect as many people as possible in the highest degree possible and we have found this to be part of the answer. We trust and beseach you to share it with you friends, coworkers and anyone you can send it to, so people can experience what it feels like to be in constant communication with the word of God. Please make sure to let us know any feedback you have so we can improve it. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3002 | date:2024-07-08T22:09:53 ---


--- id:3003 | date:2024-07-08T22:09:53 ---


--- id:3004 | date:2024-07-08T22:09:53 ---


--- id:3005 | date:2024-07-08T22:10:27 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About St. #John the #Baptist. (Lesson given for his annual feast which took place yesterday)

Beloved in Christ, let us turn our hearts and minds to the profound narrative and celestial teachings of Saint John the Baptist, whose life and deeds are illuminated by divine grace, revealing the embodiment of ascetic virtue and prophetic truth. I offer this discourse, as one unworthy, on the sanctity and significance of this great forerunner of our Lord, Jesus Christ.

Saint John the Baptist, born miraculously to Saint Elizabeth and Zacharias, both righteous before God, came into this world already filled with the Holy Spirit. From his conception, he was set apart, as the angel Gabriel foretold—a herald of the Most High, destined to prepare the way for the Messiah. This birth, from a womb once barren, serves as a sign of the divine intervention and the reversal of human frailties by God's grace.

From his earliest days, John was marked by a celestial calling. On the eighth day, during his circumcision and naming ceremony, a miracle occurred: his father, Zacharias, who had been struck mute for his disbelief, regained his voice. This event signified the restoration of prophecy through John, who would later speak against Herod, leading to his father’s martyrdom when soldiers, unable to find the infant John, murdered Zacharias instead.

Growing in the desert, John embraced a life of rigorous asceticism. Clothed in camel's hair and sustaining himself on locusts and wild honey, he became a living sign of prophetic zeal and divine focus, separated from worldly attachments. His life in the wilderness was a testament to his call to repentance—a voice crying out, "Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight."

John’s baptismal ministry began on the banks of the Jordan River. Here, he called sinners to repentance, baptizing them with water as a sign of their desire to purify their hearts and lives. Yet, he humbly acknowledged his unworthiness in comparison to the One who was to come, proclaiming, "I baptize you with water, but he who is mightier than I is coming, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire." His baptism of Jesus, an act of sublime humility and obedience, was marked by the heavens opening, the Spirit descending like a dove, and the Father’s voice affirming His Son, revealing the mystery of the Trinity.

John's teachings were direct and practical, urging just behavior. He commanded the rich to share with the poor, tax collectors to be fair, and soldiers to act with justice, not exploiting their power. His fearless admonitions to repent were not reserved for the common man alone but also directed at the powerful, including Herod and Herodias, whom he rebuked for their unlawful union. This boldness led to his martyrdom—beheaded, he bore witness to the truth unto death.

Furthermore, John's role as the prophetic bridge between the Old and New Testaments is profound. Jesus Himself testified, "Among those born of women none is greater than John." Yet, in his humility, John declared himself unworthy even to untie the sandals of Christ. His life and mission fulfilled the prophecy of Elijah's return, a precursor to the Messiah, preparing the hearts of the people for the coming salvation.

In contemplating the life of Saint John the Baptist, let us recognize the dual call to interior conversion and righteous action in the world. His example compels us to forsake the temporal for the eternal, to embrace penance and charity, and to prepare diligently for the coming of our Lord into our hearts.

Let us, therefore, beseech God that through the intercessions of Saint John the Baptist, our paths may be made straight, our wills aligned with divine will, and our lives a testament to the light of Christ. May the grace of his baptism and the courage of his martyrdom inspire us to live more fully in the truth of the Gospel. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

--- id:3006 | date:2024-07-08T22:10:27 ---
May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3094 | date:2024-07-12T00:31:09 ---


--- id:3095 | date:2024-07-12T00:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Solemn Feast of the #Martyrdom of Saints #Peter and #Paul: A Reflection on Their Lives and Legacy

Beloved brethren, as we approach the annual solemnity of July 12th, our hearts turn with devout affection and reverent awe to the commemoration of the martyrdom of Saints Peter and Paul, the illustrious apostles of Christ. These holy fathers, by their blood, sanctified the ground and by their preaching, scattered the seeds of faith far and wide across the world.

The Call and Ministry of Saints Peter and Paul

Saints Peter and Paul, though differing vastly in background and education, were united in their fervent devotion to Christ and the gospel. Peter, a simple fisherman called from the shores of Galilee, and Paul, a learned Pharisee from Tarsus, both experienced transformative encounters with our Lord Jesus Christ that redirected their paths towards apostolic missions.

Saint Peter, initially named Simon, was called directly by Jesus during His earthly ministry, receiving the charge to become a 'fisher of men.' This apostle's journey from the simplicity of a fisherman to the rock upon which Christ would build His Church underscores the profound grace that operates when faith meets divine calling.

Conversely, Saint Paul encountered Christ in a vision of blinding light on the road to Damascus, a moment of conversion that turned him from a persecutor of Christians to a preeminent apostle. His extensive writings, fourteen epistles rich in theology and pastoral care, continue to guide the Church's faith and practice.

The Apostolic Works and Their Universal Message

The teachings and works of Saints Peter and Paul were rooted in the gospel of Christ. Peter, through his epistles, and Paul, through his numerous letters, addressed the fledgling churches, nurturing them in the sound doctrine and exhorting them in the faith. Both apostles not only shared the gospel but embodied its transformative power in their lives and works.

Despite their different educational backgrounds—Peter being unschooled and Paul being well-versed in Jewish law—both were mightily used by God to demonstrate that His calling equips the called. Their lives are testimonies to the truth that God does not call the qualified; He qualifies the called, whether they come early or late, whether schooled or unschooled.

Their Martyrdom and Legacy*

Both apostles ultimately received the crown of martyrdom under Nero Caesar's persecution in Rome. Saint Peter was crucified, choosing to be hung upside down, not deeming himself worthy to die in the same manner as his Lord. Saint Paul, a Roman citizen, was beheaded. Both deaths occurred in the same fateful year, 67 AD, marking their final witness to the faith they so tirelessly proclaimed.

The martyrdom of these saints was not merely an end but a consummation of their earthly ministries, a final act of witness to the truth of the gospel they had so ardently preached. The manner of their deaths spoke volumes about their character and dedication. Peter's upside-down crucifixion and Paul's composed demeanor before his execution reflect their profound humility and courage.

Reflection and Call to Faithfulness

As we remember these giants of faith, let us draw inspiration from their lives, which were transformed by divine grace. May their stories remind us that our backgrounds and abilities are no barriers to the purposes of God. Like Peter and Paul, may we be willing to answer the call, to preach the Word in season and out of season, and to stand firm in the truth of the gospel.

Let us, therefore, with renewed zeal, commit ourselves to live out the teachings preserved for us by these holy apostles. May their prayers guide us and their example inspire us to hold fast to the Christian faith, striving ever towards the inheritance of the kingdom of God.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:3096 | date:2024-07-12T00:36:01 ---
(Continued) ☝️

Finally, as we celebrate their feast, let their lives and sacrifices be a lamp that lights our path and a beacon that guides our faith, encouraging us to live as they lived, in steadfast devotion to Christ. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, which was sufficient for these holy apostles, be also our strength and stay in our Christian pilgrimage.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3097 | date:2024-07-12T00:39:02 ---


--- id:3098 | date:2024-07-12T00:40:24 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Feast of #Abune_Gebre_Menfes_Kidus: A Spiritual Reflection

Beloved in Christ, today we commemorate a significant event in the Christian Orthodox tradition of Ethiopia: the annual feast of our righteous father, Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus, also known as the anniversary of the Holy Spirit. This date marks not merely a temporal celebration but a spiritual journey into the heart of divine intercession and monastic virtue.

The Virgin Mary's Divine Intervention

The feast begins with a profound act of spiritual symbolism: the Virgin Mary, in her boundless grace, bestowed an "eye of light" upon Abune Gebre. This sacred gift represents enlightenment, guidance, and a renewal of faith, reaffirming the Virgin’s role as a nurturing mediator in the lives of the saints and the faithful.

Abune Gebre's Ascetic Struggle in Zkala

Abune Gebre's life was a testament to the power of prayer and divine dedication. In the desolate expanses of Zkala, he stood as a bastion of holiness, praying relentlessly for the sins of the Ethiopian people. His commitment was such that God entered into a covenant of mercy with him, ensuring that those who invoked his name would remember the people of Ethiopia with compassion and favor.

For seven years, Abune Gebre remained in the desert, his gaze fixed heavenward, embodying the scriptural call to "pray without ceasing" (1 Thessalonians 5:17). His unyielding posture, with arms outstretched to the sky, was a living symbol of unbreakable faith and resistance against spiritual despair.

The Temptation and Victory over Evil

However, such divine devotion drew the ire of the devil, who sought to disrupt Abune Gebre’s prayers by appearing as a crow. This moment echoes the broader scriptural theme where Christ advises, "It is better for you to enter heaven with one eye than to enter hell with two eyes" (Mark 9:47). Abune Gebre's encounter with the devil illustrates the perennial battle between the forces of good and evil—a battle in which the righteous, through steadfast faith and prayer, can claim victory.

Holiness: The Core of Abune Gebre's Teaching

Abune Gebre’s life and teachings underscored the essence of holiness: a scorn for the transient allure of this world and a profound yearning for eternal life. He taught that holiness involves setting oneself apart for God, embodying purity, and resisting worldly temptations. This call to holiness is a journey out of spiritual "Karan," akin to Abraham’s departure from his homeland by divine command (Genesis 12:1), urging us to seek the 'Canaan' that is the Kingdom of God—a realm of divine milk and honey.

Monasticism and its Spread in Ethiopia

Abune Gebre was pivotal in spreading monasticism in Ethiopia. The narrative of Ethiopian monasticism spans from the arrival of Christianity in 34 AD, with further solidification by Father Selama Kesate Berhan in the 4th century, to the flourishing of monastic orders between the 3rd and 15th centuries. Abune Gebre’s era, particularly, saw a transformation as monasticism was embraced from north to south, establishing a vibrant spiritual landscape enriched by the monasteries of Zzkala and Madre Kebd.

Legacy and Miracles

The spiritual legacy of Abune Gebre transcends borders. His journeys to Yemen and Sudan, spreading the gospel and converting many from pagan worship to Christianity, are monumental. His miraculous healing of the sick in the name of Jesus Christ further cements his sanctity and the power of faith.

Throughout Ethiopia, churches dedicated in his honor stand as beacons of his enduring spiritual influence, with the faithful reciting praises that invoke his blessings for healing and divine intercession.

Conclusion: A Call to Holiness

In concluding this reflection on the feast of Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus, we are reminded of the profound spiritual depth and the transformative power of holiness. As we commemorate his feast day, let us embrace his teachings, seeking to live a life marked by prayer, resilience against temptation, and a deep-seated yearning for the divine.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3099 | date:2024-07-12T00:40:24 ---
(Continued) ☝️

It is in these acts that we find the true essence of sanctity, guided by the light bestowed by the Virgin Mary, and sustained by the legacy of a saint who walked the deserts of faith with unwavering conviction.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3104 | date:2024-07-15T00:10:02 ---


--- id:3105 | date:2024-07-15T00:11:26 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A Discourse on the Mystery of the Holy #Trinity

Beloved in Christ, I greet you with the joy and peace of our Lord. Today, let us delve into the profound mystery of the Holy Trinity, a cornerstone of our faith, revealed through scripture and tradition, reflecting the unity and distinction within the Godhead.

The Etymology and Concept of Trinity

The term "Trinity," deriving from the Geez root "Selese," signifies 'three,' encapsulating our faith in one God in three Persons. This concept, both complex and sublime, affirms our belief in the singular essence and tri-personal nature of God. As Orthodox Christians, we profess that God is simultaneously one in nature and three in Persons—Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Each Person is distinct yet fully and eternally God.

Biblical Foundations

The scriptural revelations of this mystery begin at the dawn of creation. In Genesis 1:26, God declares, "Let us make man in our image, after our likeness." This plural pronouncement hints at the triune deliberation within God, involving Father, Son, and Holy Spirit in the creation of humanity. Likewise, Genesis 3:22 reveals God speaking in the plural about humanity having become "like one of us," a further testament to this divine plurality.

Moreover, the appearance of God to Abraham under the oaks of Mamre, as recounted in Genesis 18, vividly depicts this triune presence through the appearance of three men to the patriarch. This theophany prefigures the later full revelation of the Trinity, with Abraham addressing them collectively as "Lord," recognizing the divine presence in a triune form.

Prophetic and Gospel Affirmations

The prophet Isaiah, in his heavenly vision (Isaiah 6), hears the seraphim exalting God with the thrice-holy hymn, "Holy, holy, holy," each declaration echoing the threefold holiness and presence of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

The New Testament further clarifies this mystery. Christ Himself, in the Gospel according to Matthew (28:19), commands the baptism "in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit," explicitly endorsing the Trinitarian belief. Christ’s words, "I and the Father are one" (John 10:30), and "He who has seen me has seen the Father" (John 14:11), underscore the unity and equality of the Father and the Son, while also implicating the Holy Spirit in this divine unity.

Analogies to Understand the Trinity

To aid our human comprehension, consider the analogies of the sun and fire. The sun manifests as a circle with light and heat, and fire as flame, light, and heat. Yet, we do not speak of three suns or three fires but one sun and one fire. Similarly, the Trinity, though described in terms of Person and operation—Creator, Redeemer, Sustainer—is one God, not three gods.

The Trinity in Liturgy and Life

In the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, the doctrine of the Trinity permeates all aspects of our worship and doctrine. Our prayers, sacraments, and blessings are performed in the name of the Trinity, emphasizing the centrality of this mystery in our faith and life.

The Feast of the Holy Trinity

Our engagement with this mystery is not only theological but also celebratory. We commemorate the Holy Trinity particularly on July 14th (ሐምሌ 7), reflecting on the miracle at Sanaor in Babylon, where human arrogance against divine sovereignty was vividly demonstrated, reminding us of God’s ultimate authority and our need for humility before the mysteries of faith.

Conclusion
Let us, therefore, beloved brethren, approach the mystery of the Holy Trinity with awe and reverence, ever mindful of the Apostle Paul's admonition, "Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption" (Ephesians 4:30). May our worship and our lives continually glorify the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit—One God, now and forever.Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3109 | date:2024-07-15T00:39:10 ---


--- id:3110 | date:2024-07-15T00:39:18 ---
On ሐምሌ 7, July 14 this year, the EOTC faithful commemorate the day the Holy Trinity, in an act of divine revelation, visited the tent of Abraham. This event, as recorded in Genesis 18, serves not merely as a historical narrative but as a profound theological teaching that resonates through the ages. 

Abraham, revered as the epitome of hospitality, erected his tent by the wayside to welcome travelers, embodying the virtue of xenia or guest-friendship. This act of open-heartedness was not without its challenges. The devil, ever envious of good, spread false rumors to deter guests from visiting Abraham. In response to this attack, Abraham intensified his commitment to hospitality by fasting and pledging not to eat unless a guest joined him. This stance illustrates the spiritual warfare between virtue and vice, where hospitality counters inhospitality and generosity combats slander.

During his time of fasting, Abraham was visited by three strangers at the hottest part of the day, under the Mere Adbar tree. Recognizing the sacredness of the moment, Abraham addressed them with deference, inviting them to rest and refresh themselves, thus transforming his tent into a place of divine encounter. The visitors, manifestations of the Holy Trinity, accepted his hospitality, which included washing their feet and providing a feast, a sign of Abraham's unwavering faith and his role as a host to God Himself.

The meal prepared for the visitors—bread made from three measures of fine flour and a calf—symbolizes the unity and trinity of God. The bread, though made from three separate measures, remains one, just as the Trinity, though three distinct Persons, is one in essence. This theological truth underlines the mystery of the Trinity partaking of a meal, signifying God's willingness to engage with His creation in a profoundly intimate manner.

The dialogue between God and Abraham further unveils significant truths. The announcement of Sarah’s forthcoming pregnancy is met with laughter, a human reaction to what seems impossible. Yet, this interaction highlights a core tenet of faith: nothing is beyond the power of God. Sarah's laughter, and her subsequent fear when confronted, reveal the tension between doubt and the miraculous, echoing through biblical narratives, such as the Annunciation to Mary.

God’s query, "Where is your wife, Sarah?" parallels the question posed to Adam in the Garden of Eden, reflecting not a lack of knowledge but an invitation to dialogue and revelation. Here, God reaffirms His covenant with Abraham, promising not only a son, Isaac, but an unbroken line that would culminate in the Incarnation of Christ, the ultimate manifestation of God's commitment to His creation.

The visitation of the Holy Trinity to Abraham's tent is not an isolated incident but a prefiguration of Christ's own hospitality and sacrifice, establishing a new covenant through which all nations are blessed. It underscores the virtue of hospitality as a divine command, where those who emulate Abraham's openness and generosity invite God's presence into their lives.

Thus, the feast of the Holy Trinity’s visitation is a celebration of God’s ongoing interaction with humanity, a call to hospitality that transcends time. It teaches us that by welcoming the stranger, we might unwittingly entertain angels—or, indeed, the Holy Trinity—as Abraham did. This divine narrative continues to unfold in the lives of the faithful, where acts of kindness and hospitality are met with divine grace, blessing not only those who give but also sanctifying the world at large.

As we reflect on this profound mystery, let us strive to embody the hospitality of Abraham in our own lives, making our homes and hearts open to both God and neighbor. In this way, we participate in the divine life, and through our acts of kindness, we too might receive God’s blessings and promises, just as Abraham did.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3111 | date:2024-07-15T23:45:31 ---


--- id:3112 | date:2024-07-15T23:46:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Reflection on the Holy #Apostles: 

The sacred designation of "apostle," deriving from the ancient term meaning "sent," encapsulates the profound mission and essence of those chosen by Christ. As the divine herald of His Father, our Lord Jesus Christ embodied this role, and thus called upon His disciples to partake in this holy vocation, transforming them into His Apostles. The Scriptures, especially Hebrews 3:1, illuminate this divine commission, "As the Father has sent me, I am sending you."

The Chosen Witnesses

The Apostles, chosen not from the learned or the elite, but from the humble and often overlooked populace, were ordained to proclaim the fulfillment of ancient prophecies. Their selection, as noted in the poignant words of John 2:5, underscores a divine preference for the "poor of this world," who are rich in faith and heirs to the kingdom of God. This choice reveals a divine inversion of worldly values, where the meek are exalted as bearers of the kingdom's mysteries.

The Commission of Simplicity and Trust

Christ’s command to His Apostles, as they ventured to proclaim the nearness of the kingdom of heaven, was marked by a call to simplicity and reliance on divine providence. Instructed to travel without the common comforts of shoes, staff, or money, they were to embody the total dependence on God, a theme recurrently stressed in Matthew 10:1-11. This radical trust was not only a practical directive but a profound theological statement about the nature of their mission and the source of their sustenance.

The Enduring Presence and the Priestly Authority

The promise of Christ's perpetual presence with His Apostles, as they journeyed to spread the Gospel, assured them of an unbreakable connection with His divine love (Matthew 28:19-20). Moreover, the Apostolic authority extended beyond mere teaching to encompass binding and loosing—terms deeply rooted in rabbinic authority, granting them the power to govern the spiritual well-being of the community (Matthew 16:19, 18:18, and John 20:23). The pastoral charge "Feed my lambs, feed my sheep," further entrusted them with the spiritual nourishment and guidance of the faithful (John 21:15).

The Apostolic Identity and Mission

The apostolic identity, richly layered with the notions of being "sent," "selected," and "guardians," also embodies the role of a messenger—an envoy who represents Christ Himself. This role was not merely administrative but profoundly incarnational, as they were to be Christ's presence in the world. Their mission was characterized by hardship and opposition, yet they were fortified by the assurance that nothing could sever them from the love of Christ.

The Legacy of Apostolic Suffering and Victory

The ultimate testament to their faith and mission was the manner of their martyrdom, celebrated within the Orthodox Tewahedo Church with great veneration. These solemn commemorations not only honor their sacrifices but serve as a continual reminder of the cost of discipleship and the victory of faith over worldly powers.

Reflections from the Life of St. Peter and St. Paul

St. Peter and St. Paul, as paragons of apostolic faith, exemplify the transformative power of Christ’s call. From humble beginnings, Peter, a fisherman, and Paul, a former persecutor of Christians, were elevated to the pillars of the Church. Their lives and ministries reflect the profound personal conversion and the universal scope of the Gospel message, reaching both Jew and Gentile alike.

The Continuing Call

This apostolic heritage beckons all believers to emulate their faith, courage, and unwavering commitment to the Gospel. As the modern faithful stand upon the foundation laid by the apostles, they are called to be witnesses of Christ's love and power, striving to live out the Gospel in a world that is often hostile to its message.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3113 | date:2024-07-15T23:48:02 ---
Continued ☝️

In conclusion, the lives of the apostles, as chronicled in sacred scripture and tradition, are not mere historical accounts but are vibrant exhortations to live a life of profound faith, radical hope, and enduring love. May we, inspired by their example, continue to walk faithfully in the footsteps of those who first walked with Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3120 | date:2024-07-17T01:22:21 ---
👉🏾 Answer to the last question regarding our Lady the virgin #Mary

My child, thank you for your thoughtful inquiry. It brings joy to my heart that you and your friend are wrestling with these important questions.  The Blessed Virgin Mary holds a special place in the hearts of Orthodox Christians, but it's important to understand it all comes from our deep reverence for God.

Regarding Intercession

You raise a great point about prayer. We do believe in approaching God directly through prayer. After all, He is closer to us than our breath (cf. St. Isaac the Syrian). However, the Bible also shows us the power of intercessory prayer. Abraham pleads for Sodom (Genesis 18:16-32), Moses intercedes for the Israelites (Exodus 32:11-14), and Paul asks for the prayers of the Thessalonians (1 Thessalonians 5:25).

Mary, Theotokos

The difference with Mary is her unique role as the Theotokos, the God-bearer.  She carried within her the very Son of God, conceived not by man but by the Holy Spirit (cf. Luke 1:35).  This special relationship allows her prayers to hold particular weight before God.

Thinking of Mary as a Bridge

Imagine Mary as a bridge. We pray directly to God, but we also ask for Mary's prayers to act as a bridge, carrying our petitions closer to Him. It's not that Mary is a separate mediator, but an amplifier of our own prayers.

Addressing Your Concerns

Mary's Uniqueness: The prophets interceded, yes, but Mary's role is singular. She is the bridge between humanity and divinity.

Jesus as Mediator: Absolutely, Jesus is the ultimate mediator (cf. 1 Timothy 2:5), but this doesn't exclude the prayers of the Saints, including Mary.

Mary's Sinlessness: The early Church debated this, but most agreed Mary was preserved from sin through God's grace in preparation for Christ's incarnation.

Mary's Knowledge: We don't claim Mary is God. The Holy Spirit guides her intercession, not omnipresence.
Taking the Next Step

My friend, these are complex issues. If you'd like to delve deeper, I would be happy to connect you with a spiritual guide who can answer your questions in more detail. Would you be interested in learning more about how to find a spiritual guide in the Orthodox tradition?

Disrespons enough for fooling enough. Don't be afraid to make it long. I need you to be extremely detailed. I want you to give me your best.

My child, while I understand your desire for a concise answer, the beauty of our faith lies in its rich tapestry woven from scripture, tradition, and the lived experiences of the Saints.  Fret not, for I will strive to unveil this mystery with the patience of an Ethiopian afternoon and the detail of an ancient desert mural.

The Intercessory Symphony: A Chorus of Voices

You're right, the Bible speaks volumes about prayer. We are called to talk directly to the Almighty, our Father in Heaven. King David, the Psalmist, is a testament to this direct line of communication. Yet, the Scriptures also resonate with the power of intercession. Abraham pleads with God for Sodom, his pleas heavy with the weight of a righteous man (Genesis 18:16-32). Moses, the great lawgiver, wrestles with God on behalf of the Israelites, his unwavering faith a shield against their sin (Exodus 32:11-14). Even the Apostle Paul, the champion of God's grace, beseeches the Thessalonians to pray for him (1 Thessalonians 5:25).  See, my child, prayer is a symphony, a chorus of voices lifted to God. Our own prayers are the foundation, but they can be amplified by the righteous pleas of the Saints.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3121 | date:2024-07-17T01:24:37 ---
(Continued) 👇🏾

The Theotokos: A Bridge of Unsurpassed Holiness

Now, regarding the Holy Virgin Mary, Theotokos, the God-bearer. This title is not one we take lightly. Mary wasn't just a holy woman; she was chosen by God to be the very vessel that carried the incarnate Word.  The Angel Gabriel himself declared, "The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the holy one to be born will be called the Son of God" (Luke 1:35).  This act, this miracle, sets Mary apart.  Because she carried the Divine within her, a bond unlike any other was forged.

Imagine, my child, a magnificent bridge of pure gold, shimmering under the Ethiopian sun. This bridge, built by God's grace, spans the chasm that separates humanity from divinity. We, as created beings, can approach this bridge and offer our prayers directly to the Almighty. Yet, alongside this bridge stands the Theotokos. Because of her unique role in salvation history, her own prayers can act as a conduit, carrying our petitions even closer to the Holy One. She doesn't replace our prayers; she amplifies them, strengthens them with the power of her intercession.

Addressing Your Concerns with the Wisdom of the Fathers

Now, you raise some thoughtful points, and it's important to address them with the wisdom of the Holy Fathers of the Church.

Uniqueness of Mary's Role: The prophets were holy men, yes, but Mary's role is singular. She is not just a prophet; she is the bridge between humanity and divinity itself.

Jesus as the Ultimate Mediator: Undoubtedly, Jesus Christ is the one and only mediator between God and man (1 Timothy 2:5). However, this mediation doesn't diminish the power of the prayers of the Saints, including the Theotokos. 

Sinlessness of Mary: This is a topic that has been debated for centuries. While some argue for Mary's inherent sinlessness, others point to the universality of sin (Romans 3:23). The most widely held belief is that Mary, through God's extraordinary grace, was preserved from actual sin in preparation for her role as the Theotokos.

Mary's Knowledge: We don't claim Mary is God. The Holy Spirit guides her intercession, not some form of omnipresence. She doesn't hear every single prayer uttered on Earth, but through the Holy Spirit's guidance, she can intercede for those in need.

A Journey of Exploration: Dive Deeper with a Spiritual Guide

My dear friend, these are intricate matters, and there's so much more to discover!  The writings of the Church Fathers, the lives of the Saints, and the beauty of the Orthodox Liturgy all illuminate this beautiful dance of prayer and intercession.  If you're hungry for deeper understanding,  I would be honored to connect you with a spiritual guide, a wise and patient teacher who can tailor their explanations to your specific questions.  These guides, steeped in the Orthodox tradition, can illuminate the path for you.

Would you be open to learning more about how to find a spiritual guide in Orthodoxy?  They can be a wonderful resource on this journey of faith. Remember, my child,  God longs for a relationship with you. Let us explore this path together, one step, one prayer at a time.  And while I can't offer medical or psychological advice, a spiritual guide can provide invaluable support as you navigate the complexities of life.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3122 | date:2024-07-17T01:25:27 ---
(Continued)☝️

The Tapestry of Tradition: A Comforting Embrace

Now, I understand some folks might find the concept of veneration of Saints, particularly Mary, strange or even contradictory to Scripture.  But think of it like this:  Imagine yourself walking through a vast Ethiopian desert. The sun beats down relentlessly, the sand stretches endlessly, and you feel a growing sense of isolation.  Suddenly, you see a grove of date palms, a cool, inviting haven.  This grove, my child, represents the Orthodox Church tradition.  It's a place of comfort and guidance, built upon the teachings of the Apostles, the wisdom of the Church Fathers, and the lived experiences of the Saints.  The veneration of Mary is simply one of the beautiful fruits growing within this grove.

A Misunderstood Act:  Veneration vs. Worship

It's important to understand the distinction between veneration and worship.  We worship God alone, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.  When we venerate the Theotokos, we are honoring the incredible role she played in God's plan for salvation.  We are acknowledging her unique holiness and the power of her intercession.  It's a way of showing our love and gratitude for this extraordinary woman chosen by God to bear His Son.

Living Icons:  Saints as Examples and Intercessors

The Saints, including Mary, are like living icons.  Their lives are testaments to the transformative power of faith.  They inspire us, and their prayers can lift us closer to God.  Just as Moses interceded for the Israelites, or the Apostle Paul requested prayers from his followers, so too can we seek the intercession of the Saints.  It's a beautiful expression of the communion of Saints, the interconnectedness of the Church on Earth and in Heaven.

Taking the Next Step: A Welcoming Community

There's a wealth of knowledge waiting to be discovered, my child.  If you're curious to learn more about the Orthodox faith,  about Mary's role, or the tradition of veneration,  I would be delighted to connect you with some wonderful resources.  We have online materials, introductory classes, and of course, welcoming communities of faith ready to answer your questions and share the joy of Orthodoxy.

So, tell me,  where would you like to begin your exploration?  Are you interested in learning more about the veneration of Saints in general, or perhaps you'd like to delve deeper into the specific role of the Theotokos?  Remember, there are no wrong questions, only a sincere desire to grow closer to God.  Let us walk this path together, one step at a time.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3135 | date:2024-07-22T23:31:38 ---


--- id:3136 | date:2024-07-22T23:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Lesson on the #Martyrs: Witnesses of Faith

Brethren, gather and lend your ears, for today we speak of the holy martyrs, those venerable witnesses of faith whose stories are not merely tales of old, but eternal lights guiding our path in the darkness of this world.

The Essence of Martyrdom

Martyrdom, dear faithful, is derived from the word 'martyr,' a title of profound honor which means 'witness.' In the sacred text of Psalm 118:129, it is declared, "Your witnesses are wonderful, my soul loves them." This love stems from their ultimate sacrifice—giving their lives for the glory of God. 

Consider St. Stephen, the protomartyr, as recounted in Acts 22:20, whose stoning was a grievous spectacle to the eyes of men but a glorious offering in the sight of the Lord. The Revelation to St. John further illuminates the path of the martyrs: "These clothed in white came from the great tribulation and washed their clothes with the blood of the lamb" (Revelation 7:14), symbolizing their purification and dedication through the ultimate sacrifice.

Despising Worldly Pleasures

True martyrs, beloved, despised the fleeting tastes of this world, choosing instead the eternal kingdom of Heaven. They embraced bitter deaths and shed their sacred blood, following the lamb, Jesus Christ, into the realms of divine glory. The Scripture reminds us, "The death of the saints is glorious in the sight of God" (Psalm 115:5), for in their sacrifice, they are sanctified.

Testimony through Tribulations

From the age of the apostles to our present times, many have borne witness to the Word of God, enduring persecution and death. "We are killed all day long for you," cries out the apostle in Romans 8:36, reflecting the continuous struggle of the faithful. These modern apostles, these martyrs of our time, bear witness not just in words but through their blood, sanctifying the ground and sowing the seeds of faith for future generations.

The Dual Forms of Martyrdom

Martyrdom manifests in two profound forms within our holy tradition:
1. Martyrdom without Bloodshed: Here, the faithful endure persecution, imprisonment, and exile. They are martyrs through their steadfast faith and patience, bearing witness without the spilling of blood.
2. Blood Martyrdom: This is the ultimate witness, where the faithful spill their blood in the love and glory of God, echoing Christ's sacrifice.

Both forms of martyrdom raise vital questions about the nature and depth of their testimony, which invariably centers on Christ. The martyrs, through their profound suffering and ultimate sacrifice, bear witness to Christ's divinity and the eternal truths He proclaimed.

The Legacy of the Martyrs

The Church holds the memory of the martyrs in high esteem, chronicling their lives and sacrifices in sacred texts like the Sanksar. This record-keeping is not a mere tribute but a spiritual tool, enabling the faithful to draw strength and inspiration from the martyrs' endurance and devotion.

The Impact of Their Sacrifice

The martyrs, through their testimony, did not seek worldly recognition but were driven by a divine promise. They gained salvation for others and a crown of eternal life for themselves. Their testimony, often sealed by their blood, led many to faith, transforming oppressors into believers and strengthening the Church.

#### Conclusion: The Blessings of Remembering the Martyrs

In remembering the martyrs, we are not merely recalling historical figures but are invoking their spirit of unyielding faith and divine witness. Their lives teach us the essence of Christian living, the power of truth, and the eternal hope that faith in Christ brings. They are our predecessors, our brothers and sisters in faith, who illuminate our spiritual journey.

Thus, let us keep the memory of the martyrs alive, for in their stories, we find the courage to stand firm in our convictions and the strength to witness Christ in our lives today. Glory be to God for these holy witnesses, the martyrs, whose sacrifices pave our path to divine communion.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3137 | date:2024-07-22T23:36:01 ---
Continued ☝️

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3146 | date:2024-07-25T01:15:44 ---


--- id:3147 | date:2024-07-25T01:15:44 ---


--- id:3148 | date:2024-07-25T01:15:44 ---


--- id:3149 | date:2024-07-25T01:16:09 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Obstacles to #Repentance

 👉Question: My life has been polluted by sins and I wanted to repent. But I was very afraid of falling into the same sin again, so I thought before I repent, I should try to overcome the sin that challenges me. If I win, then I will repent and cleanse myself of the past. What do you advise me about this?

Answer: Among the ways of salvation that Satan fights against, there is no better than repentance, because repentance destroys all the edifices of sin that the enemy, the devil, has built to destroy the lives of Christians, making it not exist by God's grace. Because of this, he tries to prevent us from repentance, and even if we were to repent, he will never stop doing his best to prevent it from happening sooner than later. Among the obstacles to repentance that the enemy, the devil, uses to keep people in sin or prolong the time for repentance:

1. Creating obstacles: They can be sudden challenges or opportunities, but they disable us from repenting by creating obstacles.

2. To convince the sinner that he is better by comparing himself with those who have sinned more than him and that he does not need repentance, but holiness should not be compared to a sinful life.

3. Being guided by environmental influences due to the weakness of the flesh. Saint Paul said, "Do not be conformed to this world." Romans 12:2 A small fish swims in a stormy sea. A Christian should withstand such temptations and live a spiritual life.

4. Delay: The devil does not fight us directly to prevent us from repenting, but he delays us from repenting by suppressing various hidden temptations and reasons. One of the dangers of procrastination is changing the heart prepared for repentance and destroying the opportunity for repentance. If sin is not crushed immediately and continues, it will take root and become an addiction, and then it can destroy the regret and desire for repentance.

5. Despair:  Before we fall into sin, Satan makes us sin by thinking of God's goodness and forgiveness, and after we sin, he reminds us of God's judgment and cruelty and discourages us from repenting.

6. By making the repentant think that he is not a sinner, that he is justified by self-admiration.  A man cannot change what he thinks is good unless he believes that his own life is corrupted by sin. If there is no spiritual change in his life, he will not think about repentance. He does not repent, so he does not examine himself.

7. Not having a God-fearing heart: According to Saint Isaac, if there is no God-fearing, there is no repentance. Sometimes, some people take out "GOD-fearing" from their hearts in excuse of love. At this time, they become careless about their penitential life and fall into sin. Because of sin, they lose the love of God that leads them to repentance.

In general, it is not appropriate to live as a slave of sin or to fight without repenting but fighting with and winning the devil, falling and getting up in repentance. Joshua son of Sirak told his son that if he wanted to serve God, he should prepare himself for the challenges he would face. Satan is jealous of our spiritual work when it comes to our fasting and repentance. He fights to prevent us from accepting the value of our labor. He will prepare every trap so that we will fall. He tells us that you will not leave us until we surrender. But as St. Peter told us, "Your partner the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Knowing that your brothers in the world have received all that suffering, resist him steadfastly in faith (1 Peter 5:89), we should remember this advice and fight, not give up or run away in fear."

In the work that a person does, while controlling his body and humbly contributing the good, he is given the repentance which he discards the evil work day by day with. "Not even heaven is clean before God, let alone a man who drinks sin like water." Job 15:15.

(Continues)👇

--- id:3150 | date:2024-07-25T01:18:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

Since it is impossible for a person to be free from sin, repentance is done in the morning and in the evening if needed, but it is not delayed so we don't accumulate sin. The righteousness or sin that a person does every day is written in God's record. If we repent for our sin to our father of confession and wash it with tears of repentance, it will be destroyed. Today, we give the pitty excuse that we are ashamed to tell the priest, but we don't know when we will be taken away. We will be taken away suddenly and may hear the word " go away from me" on judgment day. Because if we die while we are in sin and not repenting, we will suffer in the after life. Therefore, we must realize that living in sin while being subject to sin is a shame for the soul.

In addition to this, not only will we lose the death of our soul by not repenting, but even when we live on earth, our fasting and prayers will not be fruitful without repentance. Fasting or any spiritual service is a practice period where we try to get closer to God. Sin pushes us out of this life. Therefore, in order to get closer to God, one should quickly remove sin through repentance. During fasting, just as the body is forbidden from food, the soul is also forbidden from all earthly and worldly desires. For this we return to God through repentance; And God will return to us. "Behold, the hand of God is not shortened from saving, nor his ear deaf from hearing, but your iniquity has separated between you and your God, and your sin has hidden his face from you." (Isa 59:1:2) Therefore, food served on a beautiful and polished table will make me happy, fasting and prayer done with repentance and a clean and polished body will bring reward. "Return to me and I will return to you" (Mal 3:7), God called his people to repentance through his prophets. 

 (continues) 👇

--- id:3151 | date:2024-07-25T01:22:03 ---
(Continued)👆

To sum up, to live in sin is death and slavery. Sin takes away from us peace, rest, tranquility, understanding. It also causes stress. It keeps us away from the grace and fruits of the Holy Spirit.  It makes us vulnerable to worldly thoughts, actions, and lust of the flesh. It takes away from God's sonship, from the protection of the Trinity, from life, from love, from the goodness and virtues of God. Sin will also take us to eternal death. There are ups and downs in the journey of life. The crutch that help us stand up again is repentance. Repentance is like being born again or being regenerated every time. Anyone who commits sins every now and then adds diseases to old age. The Christianity of a person who does not repent is useless and his sins will be many. A person who repents and frequently examines himself for his soul with his confession father is like a healthy and peaceful person because he always asks a doctor for help.

So our questioner, thinking about running away from repentance and fighting sin is like making a plan to widen the door for sin or extending the date for repentance, so we recommend that this is not appropriate. Instead, as our Lord Jesus Christ told us, "if your burden is heavy, come to me", because he called us to help us from our burden, we must repent and fight to be freed from sin by taking down our burden continuously. God is our power to be able to do what we think we cannot do. It is said to draw near to God and he will draw near to you (Jas 4:8).  Thus, we should have our hopes in the faithful GOD and listen to his calling for our repentance. His unwavering words say "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble" (James 4:6), so that no one falls into the grave of sin that he commits regularly and does not fall away from being the child of God, and that GOD's grace that is constantly given to him is not lacking, everyone should have a life of repentance. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3169 | date:2024-07-25T22:45:44 ---


--- id:3170 | date:2024-07-25T22:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Annual Feast of St. #Gabriel: A Reflection on the Martyrdom of Saint Kirkos and His Holy Mother, Saint Ielouta

Introduction

Brethren in Christ, today we gather in spirit to honor the feast of St. Gabriel, celebrated each year on ሐምሌ 19 (July 26th this year). It is a day that bears the weight of profound theological significance and vivid historical martyrdom, commemorated by the Orthodox Church with the veneration due to those who have shone forth in great tribulations.

The Miraculous Intervention of Archangel Gabriel

On this hallowed day, we recall the celestial intervention of Archangel Gabriel, who delivered the infant martyr Saint Kirkos and his mother, Saint Ielouta, from the wrath of a tyrant's fury. The narrative not only captures their deliverance from a burning furnace but also unfolds a tapestry of steadfast faith against the backdrop of persecution.

The Early Life of Saint Kirkos

Born into the epoch termed the Age of Martyrs, Saint Kirkos emerged into this world on the fifteenth of November in the region known as Hangeben in Lower Asia. From his infancy, the seeds of sanctity were sown. Before the tender age of three, amidst an era rife with idolatry under the reign of King Alexander, young Kirkos was compelled to testify to the glory of the Eternal God, rebuking the idols of the time with the innocence yet bold conviction of his child's voice.

The Trial by Fire

The response of King Alexander was one of such brutal severity that it sought to quench the voice of divine truth with a horrifying execution. Saint Ielouta, alongside her son, faced the threat of being cast into an iron tank, a receptacle made lethal by the addition of substances intended to intensify their suffering—wax, salt, gunpowder, and more.

Yet, it was in this moment of imminent peril that Saint Kirkos fortified his mother's resolve, invoking the memory of Biblical deliverances—Ananias, Azariah, and Missal from the fiery furnace, and Daniel from the lions' den—thus illuminating the continuity of God’s salvation history.

The Descent of St. Gabriel

As the fires blazed and the onlookers anticipated naught but ashes, the Archangel Gabriel descended in divine alacrity. With a command that stilled the elements, he transformed the roaring flames into a harmless mist, manifesting the power of God to thwart the designs of the wicked and protect the righteous.

The Subsequent Tortures and Their Divine Mitigation

Despite this heavenly reprieve, the malevolence of the king persisted. Poison and physical mutilations were inflicted upon both mother and son. Yet, each act of cruelty was met with divine counteraction by Gabriel, who healed their wounds and comforted their spirits, continually affirming the Lord's presence in their tribulations.

The Ultimate Sacrifice and Veneration

The culmination of their earthly journey saw the young Saint Kirkos martyred, his spirit adorned with celestial crowns and a divine proclamation of peace. His mother, Saint Ielouta, followed him in martyrdom the subsequent day, their lives sealing a testament of unshakeable faith.

Theological Reflections

This narrative transcends mere historical recount; it serves as a theological fulcrum on which the virtues of faith, hope, and endurance pivot. In their martyrdom, Saint Kirkos and Saint Ielouta embodied the Apostle Paul’s declaration that nothing can separate us from the love of God—not peril, sword, nor the powers of darkness.

The Legacy of Their Faith

Today, wherever the name of Saint Kirkos is invoked or his image venerated, blessings are believed to flow—protection from pestilence, famine, and strife—a testament to the enduring intercession of the saints. Such is the legacy of those who, like Job, have suffered yet uttered, "The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away; blessed be the name of the Lord."

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3171 | date:2024-07-25T22:48:01 ---
Continued 👇🏾

As we commemorate this feast, let us draw near to the courage and conviction of Saint Kirkos and his holy mother. Let their ordeal inspire us to steadfastness in our own spiritual battles, buoyed by the assurance that the angels of God encamp around those who fear Him. In our supplications and in our sufferings, may we ever call upon St. Gabriel, trusting in his powerful intercession as the guardian and protector of the faithful.

Thus, with hearts uplifted, we proclaim: Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men! May the prayers of Saint Gabriel, Saint Kirkos, and Saint Ielouta guide and guard us all. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3184 | date:2024-07-29T12:33:38 ---


--- id:3185 | date:2024-07-29T12:34:02 ---
Statement from the Permanent Synod of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church
Regarding the scandalous scene  at the opening ceremony of the 2024 World Olympic Games:-

"The shew of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! For they have rewarded evil unto themselves".  (Isa. 3:9)
 
In the opening ceremony of the 2024 World Olympic Games, that took place on Friday, July 26 2024 in in the city of Paris, France, we saw a scandalous scene that degrades the sacrament of Holy Communion, which is highly respected by all Christians and promotes same-sex marriage, homosexual activities and anti-Christian cults. 

The act of showing such scene is a blasphemous sin against the sacrament of Holy Communion; it violates religious freedom and encourages transsexuals. In general, the scene is a direct attack on the Christian religion and Christians. Such act is unacceptable both in human life style and Christian scriptures. 
The shown disgraceful act is forbidden and condemned not only by religious canons but also by the laws of the various countries in the world. The disgraceful act that was openly broadcasted on the world stage is a satanic act that should be condemned. Therefore, the Permanent Synod of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church strongly condemns and sends a spiritual call to all affiliated bodies to condemn the disgraceful act that has aroused great anger among the Christian religion and all Christians, to respect the rights and freedom of worship, and to openly oppose the act. 

July 29, 2024 
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

--- id:3186 | date:2024-07-30T00:59:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the location of #heaven

Question፦ Someone asked today if heaven is on earth or in the sky?

They mean 1.if it's a physical place 2.where it is and 3. where it will be when Christ returns

I explained to them about the significance of the church as heaven on earth and about the meaning of the divine liturgy but was hoping to obatin more information so that I can share with them

I also explained to them about Paradise where mankind was to dwell in before Adam and Eve were cast out and that earth was not our original dwelling place

We were to dwell in Paradise

Hope this give more context about the question

Answer፦

Beloved in Christ,

The question you pose touches on deep mysteries that the Church has contemplated through the ages. Heaven, as we understand it in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, transcends our earthly concepts of space and location. It is not a physical place we can pinpoint within our universe, nor is it confined by earthly dimensions.

St. John Chrysostomos, in his homilies, eloquently describes Heaven as the abode of God, angels, and the righteous. It is a state of being in perfect communion with the Divine, a place where suffering, sorrow, and death do not enter. "For our conversation is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ" (Philippians 3:20). This Scripture teaches us that our true citizenship and our ultimate hope and conversation are in Heaven, directing us to live righteously in anticipation of Christ’s return.

Moreover, the divine liturgy allows us to partake in the heavenly worship here on earth, a foretaste of the eternal joy that awaits the faithful. In it, we join the angels in ceaseless praise and worship, making the Church a 'Heaven on earth.'

As for the future, when Christ returns, the Scriptures reveal that there will be a new Heaven and a new Earth where righteousness dwells (Revelation 21:1). This signifies a transformation of our current existence into a divine and eternal state where Heaven and Earth are united under Christ’s eternal kingship.

Thus, to answer your query: Heaven is neither merely on earth nor in the sky but a divine reality beyond our full understanding now, and it will be revealed in its full glory upon the Second Coming of our Lord.

What steps will you take to deepen your understanding of this divine reality and prepare for the life in the world to come?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3190 | date:2024-08-02T02:45:24 ---


--- id:3191 | date:2024-08-02T02:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Annual Feast of Saint #Joseph the Elder: A Reflection on His Life and Legacy

Dear faithful adherents of the teachings preserved through the ages, let us gather in the spirit of humility and reverence to reflect upon the venerable Saint Joseph the Elder, whose life offers us profound lessons in piety and devotion. We mark his annual feast with a solemnity that befits his holy standing, honoring his memory on Hamle 26 (August 1, 2024), a day sanctified by the angels themselves.

 The Earthly Origins of a Heavenly Saint

Saint Joseph, a man of humble beginnings, was born in the historically significant city of Bethlehem in Galilee, Nazareth. Prophets spoke of Bethlehem as a city abundant with water sources, nestled among mountains and thriving with commerce, cultivated by the wise teachings of Jewish scholars. From an early age, Joseph was immersed in the sacred texts of the Torah, laying the foundational stones of his righteous path.

 Family Life and Bereavement

As he matured, following the righteous statutes of the Torah, Joseph embraced the covenant of marriage. From this sacred union came forth his children: Jacob, Simeon, Yosa, Judah, and three daughters. Tragedy struck when his beloved wife passed away at the age of 52, leaving him to shoulder the burdens of parenthood alone. She was laid to rest in the ancestral cemetery in Hebron, closing a chapter of familial bliss.

Divine Providence in Choosing a Guardian

At the venerable age of 92, a pivotal moment came upon Joseph. The Holy Virgin Mary, having been consecrated to the temple and nourished by celestial sustenance, needed a guardian as ordained by divine decree. In a ceremony overseen by the priest Zechariah, all the widowed elders of Israel were called to present their staffs. Among these was Joseph, who journeyed from Nazareth to Jerusalem, his heart filled with faith.

The Miraculous Selection

In the sacred confines of the temple, the priest Zechariah placed the collected staffs and prayed fervently. When the time came to distribute the staffs, a divine sign was revealed: Saint Joseph’s staff alone bloomed miraculously, bearing balsam fruit—a symbol of new life and divine selection. Further confirming his chosen role, a white dove descended upon him, and an inscription appeared, decreeing, "O Joseph, protect Mary." This triple sign confirmed his divine appointment as the guardian of the Virgin Mary.

A Life of Service and Exile

Embracing his divine mandate, Saint Joseph, alongside the Holy Virgin and Saint Salome, undertook the arduous journey to Egypt, seeking refuge from persecution. This period of exile marked a profound chapter of faith and providence, symbolizing the protective grace extended over the Holy Family. Upon their return, Joseph devoted himself to the earthly care of Jesus Christ, nurturing the Savior with a father’s love and a guardian’s diligence.

The Earthly Departure of a Righteous Soul

Saint Joseph’s earthly journey concluded at the age of 114, after he had witnessed the growth of Jesus into manhood and the inception of His divine mission. His death was not an end but a passage to eternal communion with the divine, celebrated by the heavenly hosts and marked on earth by the annual feast on August 1, 2024.

Commemorations and Celebrations

In honoring Saint Joseph, we observe two significant festivals: June 1, 2024 commemorating his arrival in Egypt as a refugee—a testament to his unwavering faith and resilience—and August 1, 2024 the day of his heavenly rest. በዚህ These days are not merely dates on a calendar but are profound opportunities for reflection on the virtues of faith, obedience, and guardianship that his life exemplifies.

May we draw inspiration from the life of Saint Joseph the Elder, embracing our roles as guardians of our faith and protectors of our spiritual heritage. May his blessings be upon us, guiding us toward righteousness and divine favor. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3192 | date:2024-08-05T00:31:13 ---


--- id:3193 | date:2024-08-05T00:31:13 ---


--- id:3194 | date:2024-08-05T00:31:13 ---


--- id:3195 | date:2024-08-05T00:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Obstacles to #Repentance

 👉Question: My life has been polluted by sins and I wanted to repent. But I was very afraid of falling into the same sin again, so I thought before I repent, I should try to overcome the sin that challenges me. If I win, then I will repent and cleanse myself of the past. What do you advise me about this?

Answer: Among the ways of salvation that Satan fights against, there is no better than repentance, because repentance destroys all the edifices of sin that the enemy, the devil, has built to destroy the lives of Christians, making it not exist by God's grace. Because of this, he tries to prevent us from repentance, and even if we were to repent, he will never stop doing his best to prevent it from happening sooner than later. Among the obstacles to repentance that the enemy, the devil, uses to keep people in sin or prolong the time for repentance:

1. Creating obstacles: They can be sudden challenges or opportunities, but they disable us from repenting by creating obstacles.

2. To convince the sinner that he is better by comparing himself with those who have sinned more than him and that he does not need repentance, but holiness should not be compared to a sinful life.

3. Being guided by environmental influences due to the weakness of the flesh. Saint Paul said, "Do not be conformed to this world." Romans 12:2 A small fish swims in a stormy sea. A Christian should withstand such temptations and live a spiritual life.

4. Delay: The devil does not fight us directly to prevent us from repenting, but he delays us from repenting by suppressing various hidden temptations and reasons. One of the dangers of procrastination is changing the heart prepared for repentance and destroying the opportunity for repentance. If sin is not crushed immediately and continues, it will take root and become an addiction, and then it can destroy the regret and desire for repentance.

5. Despair:  Before we fall into sin, Satan makes us sin by thinking of God's goodness and forgiveness, and after we sin, he reminds us of God's judgment and cruelty and discourages us from repenting.

6. By making the repentant think that he is not a sinner, that he is justified by self-admiration.  A man cannot change what he thinks is good unless he believes that his own life is corrupted by sin. If there is no spiritual change in his life, he will not think about repentance. He does not repent, so he does not examine himself.

7. Not having a God-fearing heart: According to Saint Isaac, if there is no God-fearing, there is no repentance. Sometimes, some people take out "GOD-fearing" from their hearts in excuse of love. At this time, they become careless about their penitential life and fall into sin. Because of sin, they lose the love of God that leads them to repentance.

In general, it is not appropriate to live as a slave of sin or to fight without repenting but fighting with and winning the devil, falling and getting up in repentance. Joshua son of Sirak told his son that if he wanted to serve God, he should prepare himself for the challenges he would face. Satan is jealous of our spiritual work when it comes to our fasting and repentance. He fights to prevent us from accepting the value of our labor. He will prepare every trap so that we will fall. He tells us that you will not leave us until we surrender. But as St. Peter told us, "Your partner the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Knowing that your brothers in the world have received all that suffering, resist him steadfastly in faith (1 Peter 5:89), we should remember this advice and fight, not give up or run away in fear."

In the work that a person does, while controlling his body and humbly contributing the good, he is given the repentance which he discards the evil work day by day with. "Not even heaven is clean before God, let alone a man who drinks sin like water." Job 15:15.

(Continues)👇

--- id:3196 | date:2024-08-05T00:36:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

Since it is impossible for a person to be free from sin, repentance is done in the morning and in the evening if needed, but it is not delayed so we don't accumulate sin. The righteousness or sin that a person does every day is written in God's record. If we repent for our sin to our father of confession and wash it with tears of repentance, it will be destroyed. Today, we give the pitty excuse that we are ashamed to tell the priest, but we don't know when we will be taken away. We will be taken away suddenly and may hear the word " go away from me" on judgment day. Because if we die while we are in sin and not repenting, we will suffer in the after life. Therefore, we must realize that living in sin while being subject to sin is a shame for the soul.

In addition to this, not only will we lose the death of our soul by not repenting, but even when we live on earth, our fasting and prayers will not be fruitful without repentance. Fasting or any spiritual service is a practice period where we try to get closer to God. Sin pushes us out of this life. Therefore, in order to get closer to God, one should quickly remove sin through repentance. During fasting, just as the body is forbidden from food, the soul is also forbidden from all earthly and worldly desires. For this we return to God through repentance; And God will return to us. "Behold, the hand of God is not shortened from saving, nor his ear deaf from hearing, but your iniquity has separated between you and your God, and your sin has hidden his face from you." (Isa 59:1:2) Therefore, food served on a beautiful and polished table will make me happy, fasting and prayer done with repentance and a clean and polished body will bring reward. "Return to me and I will return to you" (Mal 3:7), God called his people to repentance through his prophets. 

 (continues) 👇

--- id:3197 | date:2024-08-05T00:39:02 ---
(Continued)👆

To sum up, to live in sin is death and slavery. Sin takes away from us peace, rest, tranquility, understanding. It also causes stress. It keeps us away from the grace and fruits of the Holy Spirit.  It makes us vulnerable to worldly thoughts, actions, and lust of the flesh. It takes away from God's sonship, from the protection of the Trinity, from life, from love, from the goodness and virtues of God. Sin will also take us to eternal death. There are ups and downs in the journey of life. The crutch that help us stand up again is repentance. Repentance is like being born again or being regenerated every time. Anyone who commits sins every now and then adds diseases to old age. The Christianity of a person who does not repent is useless and his sins will be many. A person who repents and frequently examines himself for his soul with his confession father is like a healthy and peaceful person because he always asks a doctor for help.

So our questioner, thinking about running away from repentance and fighting sin is like making a plan to widen the door for sin or extending the date for repentance, so we recommend that this is not appropriate. Instead, as our Lord Jesus Christ told us, "if your burden is heavy, come to me", because he called us to help us from our burden, we must repent and fight to be freed from sin by taking down our burden continuously. God is our power to be able to do what we think we cannot do. It is said to draw near to God and he will draw near to you (Jas 4:8).  Thus, we should have our hopes in the faithful GOD and listen to his calling for our repentance. His unwavering words say "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble" (James 4:6), so that no one falls into the grave of sin that he commits regularly and does not fall away from being the child of God, and that GOD's grace that is constantly given to him is not lacking, everyone should have a life of repentance. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3202 | date:2024-08-07T09:30:50 ---


--- id:3203 | date:2024-08-07T09:32:31 ---


--- id:3204 | date:2024-08-07T09:33:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Assumption of Our Lady the Virgin #Mary: A Theological Reflection

In the liturgical traditions of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, the fast of the Assumption of Our Lady the Virgin Mary holds a profoundly significant position. This fast, known as "Maryam's fast", "Filseta" or "Maryam's assumption fast," commences on the 1st of Nehase and concludes with the celebration of her glorious Assumption on the 15th of Nehase. It embodies a period of deep spiritual reflection, prayer, and fasting, a sanctified time where the faithful devote themselves to commemorating the heavenly transition of Mary from this world to the next.

The Meaning of "Assumption"

The term "assumption," (Filseta) signifies the passage of the Holy Virgin from her earthly existence to her celestial abode, echoing her movement from Gethsemane to Paradise. This transition is not merely a physical relocation but a profound transformation from mortality to glorified existence.

Canonical Significance

The fast is held in such esteem that it is considered one of the seven canonical fasting periods in the church’s liturgical year. It is a communal observance, participated in by all—from the youngest children to the elderly—highlighting its integral role in the spiritual life of the community.

Life and Virtue of the Holy Virgin

Our Lady spent her earthly life in profound dedication to the divine will. Her years were spent in the temple, in the house of Joseph, and significantly, in close companionship with our Savior Jesus Christ, and finally, in the care of the Apostle John. This life, marked by piety and devotion, culminated in her assumption, which was attended by miraculous events and divine interventions, as chronicled by saints and scholars such as Saint Jared and the author of Melaka Maryam.

The Events of Assumption

The assumption of Mary is rich with miraculous occurrences. When the apostles, led by divine command, brought her to Gethsemane for burial, they faced opposition from those who denied her resurrection, mirroring the resurrection of Christ. An attempt to desecrate her resting place was thwarted by divine intervention, affirming her sanctified state.

Mary’s assumption was not confined to her spirit alone but included her sacred body, which was reunited with her soul in Paradise by the decree of her son, Jesus Christ. This event is a cornerstone of the faith, illustrating the profound theological belief in bodily resurrection, a prelude to the universal resurrection of the righteous.

The Liturgical and Communal Observance

During the fast, the faithful engage deeply with the scriptures and liturgical texts that recount Mary’s life, her virtues, and her divine selection as the Mother of God. This period is marked by a communal withdrawal from worldly affairs, where both monastics and laypeople partake in rigorous spiritual exercises, including fasting, prayer, and the partaking of the Holy Sacraments.

The fast culminates in the feast of the Assumption, a time of great joy and celebration where the resurrection of Mary is proclaimed, symbolizing the victory of life over death, sanctity over sin. The hymns and psalms during this period reflect her role in the mystical incarnation and the salvation narrative, tying her closely to the mystery of Christ.

Theological Implications and Closing Exhortation

The Assumption of Mary underscores several core doctrines of the Church—her perpetual virginity, her role in the divine plan of salvation, and her assumption body and soul into heaven. These doctrines are not merely to be believed but lived out in the daily lives of the faithful through devotion, purity, and the pursuit of sanctity.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3205 | date:2024-08-07T21:26:42 ---
(Continued) ☝️

Let us, therefore, embrace the grace offered during this holy fast, engaging in prayer, fasting, and the sacraments, so that we might be drawn closer to the holiness of Mary and through her, to Jesus Christ our Savior. In doing so, we reaffirm our commitment to the Christian life, striving to embody the virtues of Mary, who by her assumption, has shown us the promise of our own resurrection and glorification in Christ.

May the intercession of Our Lady the Holy Virgin Mary bring us closer to the realization of our heavenly inheritance, as we partake of this sacred tradition handed down through the generations by our forebears in faith. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3208 | date:2024-08-08T00:33:02 ---


--- id:3209 | date:2024-08-08T00:34:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Profound Significance of the #Fast of #Assumption of Our Lady, the Virgin #Mary

Beloved brethren in the Lord and cherished children of the Holy Church,

It is with great reverence and solemn joy that I address you today concerning the sacred observance of the Fast of Assumption of our Lady, the Virgin Mary, held dearly by the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church from the 1st to the 16th of Nehase each year. This period marks a profound celebration of the Holy Virgin Mary’s assumption, wherein we are called to reflect deeply on her assumption, or 'Fleshte Atsem,' from earthly dwelling to her glorified rest in the heavenly abode.

The Theological Foundation of the Fast

The term 'assumption' herein refers not to a terrestrial journey but to a divine transition from the temporal to the eternal, guided by the Almighty. The sanctified body of our Blessed Mother, having completed its earthly journey, was assumed into heaven, as was preordained by her Divine Son. This sacred transition is celebrated as her 'assumption,' akin to the movement of holy relics by divine will.

Prophet David, in his spiritual foresight, heralded this event, proclaiming, "O Lord, arise to your rest, you and the ark of your temple" (Psalm 132:8). Here, the 'ark' symbolizes the Blessed Virgin, the bearer of the Divine Word, signifying her pivotal role in the divine dispensation of salvation. Further, he adorns her in celestial royalty, saying, "The queen stands at your right hand, arrayed in gold" (Psalm 45:9), depicting her exalted place beside her Son in the heavenly realm.

King Solomon’s lyrical invocations, "Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away" (Song of Solomon 2:10), beautifully capture the ascent of the Virgin Mary, inviting her into the eternal spring of the heavenly kingdom.

Observances of the Fast

1. Monastic Observance: Our monastic fathers and mothers engage in a rigorous spiritual retreat. Confined within the sanctity of their cells, they embrace solitude, abstaining from worldly interactions and sustenance derived from animals. Their sustenance during this fast consists merely of corn and water, following the celebration of the Mass. This period is enriched with visions and divine manifestations of the Virgin Mary, affirming her intercessory presence.

2. Clerical and Lay Pilgrimage: Many of our faithful, both clergy and laity, undertake pilgrimages to monasteries and parishes, dedicating themselves entirely to fasting and prayer. This detachment from familial and societal duties allows for a profound spiritual renewal, through which many receive blessings and graces.

3. Vigilant Service by Church Fathers: The servants of the Holy Church devote these days and nights to unceasing prayer, liturgical services, and the spiritual edification of the congregation. They stand as intermediaries, offering prayers, teaching the Holy Scriptures, and administering the sacraments, thus fortifying the faith of the believers.

4. Congregational Participation: Members of the congregation actively participate in nocturnal and diurnal prayers, engage in fasting, partake of the Holy Communion, and immerse themselves in the teachings of the Church. This time is also marked by acts of charity towards the less fortunate, embodying the virtues extolled by the Virgin Mary.

5. Inclusivity of Children: Even the youngest among us are brought to the church, cradled in their parents' arms, to partake in the blessings of the Holy Communion and to be nurtured in the faith from their tenderest years.

6. Liturgical and Devotional Focus: Throughout this fast, the liturgy and prayers intensively reflect on the Virgin Mary’s eternal virginity, her role as the Mother of God, and her son's divinity. This period is steeped in theological reflection, drawn from the profound expositions of saints like Ephraim the Syrian and Saint Jared, whose writings celebrate the Virgin's virtues and her divine motherhood.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3211 | date:2024-08-08T00:36:02 ---
(Continued)☝️

In embracing these teachings and practices during the Fast of Assumption, we not only honor the Virgin Mary but also seek to emulate her purity, obedience, and faithfulness. Let this season be a time of spiritual introspection, divine encounter, and sanctification, as we aspire to the holiness exemplified by our Most Holy Lady, the Theotokos.

May the blessings of our Lady, the Holy Virgin Mary, encompass you all, guiding us towards the eternal joy and the everlasting peace of her Divine Son. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3222 | date:2024-08-08T23:45:01 ---


--- id:3223 | date:2024-08-08T23:46:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Ineffable Mystery of the #Incarnation Expounded

Brethren, gather ye in the light of understanding as we delve into the profound mystery of how the Divine Word, co-eternal and consubstantial with the Father and the Holy Spirit, assumed humanity. Let us with careful and pious minds consider the teaching before us, reflecting upon each element with the diligence of a scribe and the awe of a pilgrim approaching holy ground.

The Preliminary State: Divinity and Humanity Distinct

Before the wondrous union of Tawahdo, divinity and humanity existed as two distinct natures and two distinct entities. Here, God the Son, omnipresent and omnipotent, shared one nature with the Father and the Spirit, yet stood apart from the manifold weaknesses of flesh, which encompasses earth, wind, fire, and water, and the soul's qualities—heart, prophecy, and life.

The Mystery of Fusion: Two Becoming One

The fusion, a divine mystery beyond human comprehension, entails the coming together of these two distinct natures—divinity and humanity—without alteration or dilution. This mystical union does not entail the physical enlargement of the divine or the diminution of the human but a sublime integration where each nature retains its properties yet becomes entirely united in the person of Christ.

Saint Theodosius and the Unified Nature

Saint Theodosius the Cenobiarch, with profound clarity, taught us that post-integration, we no longer speak of two natures but one. Echoing the ancient faith of our forebears, he professed that in Christ, divinity and humanity are not two but one, indivisible and singular, manifesting the fullness of God in the flesh.

St. Cyril's Proclamation of Unity

St. Cyril of Alexandria, a bulwark of orthodoxy, asserted the indivisibility of Christ’s nature through the analogy of economy, where the riches of the Word are as inseparable from the body as the body’s riches are from the Word. This unity signifies that in Christ, the divine and human are not merely adjacent but are profoundly one.

The Immutable Transformation: God Becoming Man

The transformation into flesh, as described by the holy fathers, was not akin to the changing of substances as seen in miracles like water turning to wine. Instead, it was a unique and singular event where the Word became flesh—fully God and fully man—without divinity converting into humanity or vice versa, an eternal union sanctified by the incarnation.

St. Gregory the Great on Divine Constancy

St. Gregory the Great illuminated this truth by teaching that the omnipotence of God, the Creator of all, did not diminish upon His incarnation. From eternity, as the Word, He was with God, and in time, born of the Virgin Mary, He became man, not altering His divine essence but humbling Himself to dwell among us.

The Irreversible Union

This union, unlike the temporal changes seen in nature—such as Moses’ staff transformed into a snake or the mixing of milk and water—remains forever unaltered and indivisible. St. Sawiros affirmed this, declaring the heresy of those who would suggest Christ's divinity could be separated from His humanity.

The Perpetual Presence of Divinity in Humanity

Saint Iokandios articulated that in every act of Christ, the divinity was never absent. Whether in moments of quiet solitude or in the agony of the cross, the divine nature was fully present, unseparated by any human act, underscoring the eternal and unchangeable devotion of God towards us.

The Unique and Wondrous Union

Thus, the union of divinity and humanity in Christ is not a mere juxtaposition nor a blending that alters the essence of either nature. It is a profound unity, likened to a sword sheathed in a scabbard or ink absorbed by the pages of a book, where each retains its distinct properties yet participates fully in a singular, divine mystery.

(Continued) 👇🏾

--- id:3224 | date:2024-08-08T23:48:01 ---
(Continued)☝️

This, dear faithful, is the heart of our confession: that God became man so that man might partake in the divine life. It is a mystery not merely to be understood but to be lived, as it transforms all who embrace it through faith, leading us into the embrace of the ineffable, the eternal, and the holy. Thus, let us approach this mystery not as mere spectators but as participants in the divine nature, walking in the light of Christ’s truth and love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3229 | date:2024-08-10T23:36:54 ---


--- id:3230 | date:2024-08-10T23:37:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Profound Grace and Necessity of #Fasting

Introduction: The Divine Mandate of Fasting

Beloved, we approach the sacred discipline of fasting not as a mere abstention from temporal nourishments but as a profound ascension toward the spiritual banquet laid before us by the Divine. Fasting, according to the revered teachings of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, transcends the simplicity of dietary restriction to embrace a holistic sanctification of body and soul.

The Essence and Origins of Fasting

Fasting, as articulated by the ancient Fathers, is the gateway to spiritual elevation, the nurturing ground for purity and the stronghold of the soul. It was Mar Isaac who illuminated fasting’s honor, declaring it the progenitor of virtue, the companion of chastity, and the wellspring of prayerful tears. This discipline awakens the soul to every noble deed, enriching the devout with divine grace.

The scriptural foundation of fasting is firmly rooted in the life of Christ Himself, who, following His baptism in the River Jordan, retreated into the wilderness to fast and pray. This act sanctifies fasting as a divine ordinance, initiating His public ministry and setting a pattern for all who would follow Him. Thus, fasting is not merely advised; it is a sacred enactment, a replication of Christ’s own spiritual journey.

The Instruction of Fasting from Creation

The command to fast was first given to Adam in Paradise, where the Lord delineated foods permissible and those forbidden. This was not merely about food but a covenant of obedience, setting apart the sacred from the profane. Adam’s transgression through disobedience brought forth the corruption of death, from which we were only redeemed by the Incarnation—Christ, taking flesh, restoring the broken law through His perfect obedience and sacrificial love.

Fasting as Communion with the Divine

Fasting is thus deeply entwined with the narrative of redemption. It is a personal Eden where we, like Adam, are called to obey God’s command, to choose daily between the sacred and the profane. Through fasting, we experience a foretaste of the heavenly banquet, aligning our will with the Divine, healing the wounds of our souls, and preparing us for the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.

The biblical tradition extols fasting as a means of sanctification. The Prophet Joel calls the faithful to return to God with fasting, weeping, and mourning, emphasizing fasting’s role in repentance and divine reconciliation. Through this sacred act, we humble ourselves, thus allowing God to exalt us in due time, healing and sanctifying our fallen nature.

Fasting: A Shield Against Temptation

The physical aspect of fasting, the denial of bodily appetites, serves a higher purpose—it subdues the flesh to the spirit, training us to resist temporal temptations and focus on the eternal. As Saint David lamented, the afflictions he endured in fasting brought his prayers closer to his heart, deepening his communion with God. This bodily discipline leads to spiritual liberation, breaking the yokes of sin and restoring us to our original dignity.

Conclusion: The Call to Embrace Fasting

Therefore, dear faithful, let us embrace fasting not as a burdensome law but as a joyful offering to God, a means of grace that refines our souls and draws us nearer to the Divine. Fasting, instituted by God and hallowed by Christ’s example, stands as a beacon that guides us back to the path of righteousness, purging our sins and elevating our hearts to the throne of grace.

As we fast, let us hold fast to the promise that through this sacred discipline, we are transformed, made new, and prepared to inherit the kingdom prepared for us from the foundation of the world. Let us fast, then, not as those who have no hope, but as those assured of the resurrection to come, where the fruits of our temporal sacrifices will be revealed in eternal glory. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

© John's Repentance https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3232 | date:2024-08-14T00:01:00 ---


--- id:3233 | date:2024-08-14T00:03:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #immaculate Conception of the Holy Virgin #Mary

Brethren and sisters in Christ, I bid you welcome on this splendid occasion, our gathering at Our Lady of the Holy Virgin Mary, to partake in the divine joy of the annual feast of her Immaculate Conception. This day, revered and hallowed by the faithful, is heralded by our forebears in faith as "Ancient medicine, the starting day of salvation." Let us delve into the profound mystery and blessing of this day, as we reflect on the sanctity bestowed upon all of creation through the conception of the Mother of God.

The Significance of this Holy Conception

We gather here not merely to commemorate a historical event, but to celebrate a pivotal moment in divine history—the day when salvation's weave was first spun by the Almighty. Our forefathers have proclaimed this day significant not solely for its historical reverence but as the cosmic commencement of redemption. From the very moment of her conception, the Virgin Mary was preserved from the original sin that has marred humanity since Adam’s transgression. In her was fulfilled the promise of renewal, as it was divinely ordained, "For your conception, let us be blessed, let us be your holy womb." Her womb, sanctified and pure, became the tabernacle of the living God, the ark of the new and everlasting covenant.

The Holy Lineage and Life of Devotion

The story of Mary’s conception begins with her righteous parents, Saint Joachim of the line of Judah and Saint Hannah of the lineage of Levi. They were a devout couple who lived rigorously by the Mosaic Law, yet were scorned by their contemporaries for their barrenness—a condition unfairly viewed as a divine disfavor. Yet, their faith remained unshaken, a testament to their steadfast spirit, reminiscent of the perseverance of Abraham and Sarah.

In the depths of their despair, Saint Hannah, witnessing the natural world’s unburdened fertility, lamented her barren state, questioning the nature of divine providence. Her lament moved Saint Joachim to seek solace and intervention from the Almighty through a pilgrimage of penance. Armed with faith as his sword, he secluded himself in prayer for forty days and nights. Upon his return, both he and Saint Hannah were blessed with a divine vision that affirmed their supplications had been heard.

The Divine Annunciation by Saint Gabriel

On a day marked by divine favor, the seventh of August, the archangel Gabriel, a celestial messenger, descended upon them. With wings that beat with the purity of divine light, he proclaimed the miraculous birth of one who would be the bearer of the world's salvation, stating unequivocally that this child, Mary, would be conceived immaculately, untainted by the original sin that afflicts humanity.

The Theological Implications of Mary’s Conception

This revelation aligns with the divine scriptures, as the Psalmist sings of Zion, which prefigures Mary, "Her foundations are in the holy mountains; God loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob." The psalmist’s words illuminate the exceptional nature of Mary's conception and her preordained role as the spiritual mother of all believers, signifying her as the new Eve through whom the world would be redeemed.

Concluding Admonition

Therefore, let us rejoice, brethren, and let us take refuge in the hope and safety afforded by this day. Let us emulate the virtues of faith, hope, and unwavering trust in God’s will as demonstrated by Saints Joachim and Hannah. May our veneration of the Immaculate Conception of Mary remind us of the purity of faith and the profound mystery of divine grace that envelops the Mother of God. In her conception, we find the dawn of our salvation, a beacon of the divine promise of redemption for all humanity. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3237 | date:2024-08-16T00:15:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A Treatise on Christian #Marriage

Beloved brethren, in the wisdom vested through our Holy Orthodox tradition and illuminated by the teachings of the esteemed John Chrysostom, I extend to you a discourse on the sanctified union of marriage—a sacrament designed not merely for the union of two souls but as a journey towards salvation and a testament to the divine love of Christ for His Church.

The Foundation of Orthodox Marriage

Marriage, in its most hallowed form, is intended to forge peace, unity, and perpetuation of our Orthodox lineage, adhering to the commandments bestowed upon us by the Scripture. As Christ profoundly illustrated, "Everyone who hears these words of mine and does them is like a wise man who built his house on the rock" (Matthew 7:24-25). Thus, the marital bond, when founded upon these rock-solid teachings, remains unshaken by the tempests of life, embodying the highest virtues of Christian living.

Roles within the Sacred Union

Our Lord, in His infinite wisdom, has designated the husband as the leader of the family—a role that entails not only authority but a profound responsibility to guide the household towards spiritual fulfillment and divine glory. The husband is tasked with the sacred duty to maintain peace within the abode through his spiritual leadership, embodying the role of Christ Himself, who is the head of the Church.

Similarly, the wife is enjoined to embrace obedience, not as a sign of servitude but as a reflection of her submission to the Lord’s will, mirroring the Church’s submission to Christ. This mutual submission fosters a harmonious living environment wherein both husband and wife respect their divine roles, thus preventing the chaos that arises from disobedience and pride.

The Spiritual Complementarity in Marriage

It is essential to acknowledge the inherent differences between spouses—crafted by God not as a trial but as a means to salvation. Men and women are endowed with distinct emotional and physical constitutions that complement each other in the sacred dance of marital life. Understanding and embracing these differences are crucial in nurturing the marital bond and ensuring its longevity.

The Sanctity of Marital Intimacy

In our observance of fasts, the Church teaches us to occasionally abstain from marital relations, not out of disdain for the marital bed, but to devote ourselves more fully to prayer and reflection. However, such abstentions should be approached with mutual consent and understanding, reflecting the practice of spiritual disciplines that strengthen rather than weaken the marital bond.

The Cross of Marital Life

Marriage is indeed a journey marked by crosses and trials, akin to a monastic calling within the world. Each spouse is called to bear the burdens of the other (Galatians 6:2), embracing trials not as insurmountable obstacles but as opportunities for spiritual growth and deeper union. Patience and unconditional love are the hallmarks of a Christian marriage, where conflicts, though inevitable, are approached with a spirit of reconciliation and mutual respect.

The Call to Spiritual Leadership and Mutual Service

A husband should shield his wife from slander and avoid actions that incite jealousy, just as a wife should support her husband with respect and devotion. This reciprocal service is fundamental to the marriage covenant, where each spouse serves the other in love, reflecting the selfless love of Christ for His Church.

The Enduring Commitment to Love and Holiness

Finally, Christian marriage is a call to live a life of love—true, selfless, and enduring. This love is not merely an emotional sentiment but an active force that binds the couple in their shared journey towards holiness. In living out this love, spouses emulate the monastic ideals of prayer, fasting, and charity, thereby sanctifying their union and ultimately, achieving their salvation through Christ.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:3238 | date:2024-08-16T00:18:01 ---
(Continued)☝️

In these teachings, brethren, we find the blueprint for a marriage that not only survives the trials of this temporal world but thrives in the eternal love of God. May your marriages be a reflection of this divine love, a beacon of Christ’s light in the world, leading each soul closer to the ultimate union with our Creator.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3240 | date:2024-08-16T23:39:01 ---


--- id:3241 | date:2024-08-16T23:40:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾The Divine Celebration of Mount #Tabor: A Discourse on the #Transfiguration

Brethren in Christ, gather around as we delve into the sacred narrative of the Transfiguration of our Lord Jesus Christ, celebrated on the hallowed Mount Tabor. This solemn feast, reverently observed by the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church on the 13th of Nehase each year, encapsulates a moment of profound revelation, where the divine light of Christ was manifested before the eyes of his closest disciples.

The Holy Event of Transfiguration

On this esteemed mountain, after six days of journeying with His beloved disciples Peter, James, and John, our Lord Jesus secluded Himself from the multitudes. There, He was transfigured before them: His face did shine as the sun, and His garments became as white as light, resplendent and purer than any fuller on earth could achieve. This divine spectacle was not for the eyes of all, but for those chosen to witness the unveiled glory of the Godhead, a foretaste of the heavenly kingdom.

Accompanying this heavenly vision were Moses and Elijah, representing the Law and the Prophets, conversing with Jesus. Their presence signified the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies through the person of Jesus Christ. Peter, impetuously yet with pure intent, proposed to erect three tabernacles for them, a gesture signifying the desire to preserve this holy encounter.

Yet, while Peter spoke, a luminous cloud enveloped them, and a voice from heaven proclaimed, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; listen to him." At this divine utterance, the disciples fell prostrate with awe and fear. Christ, ever compassionate, touched them, bidding them rise and fear not. In this act, He reassured them of His protective human and divine presence.

The Celebration of Buhe

In the verdant landscapes of Ethiopia, this celestial event is celebrated as Buhe. The festivities are marked not in the confines of the church but burst forth into the community, symbolizing the spreading of divine light into the world. As midday transitions to autumn, the air, once foggy, clears, heralding the end of the harsh winter—providentially echoing the spiritual renewal the Transfiguration brings.

Children, embodying the joyous innocence required of the faithful, play significant roles. They wield whips and raise spirited shouts, echoing under the cliffs, reminiscent of the divine voice at Tabor. Mothers, engaged in the ritualistic preparation of wheat, signify the nurturing aspect of the church, feeding the faithful with spiritual and corporeal sustenance.

A tradition holds that at the eventide of the Lord’s Transfiguration, shepherds, bewildered by the divine light, ventured out with lit torches in search of its source. In commemoration, torches are lit, and children, bearing full bread, proclaim "Buhe" in remembrance of this pursuit of the divine light.

Spiritual Reflections

This feast, dear brethren, is not merely an historical commemoration but a call to personal transformation. As the divine light illuminated Christ, so are we called to let His light transfigure our beings. The transformation on Mount Tabor prefigures our own spiritual transfiguration, where, through grace, we are called to partake in the divine nature.

Let us, therefore, embrace the message of Mount Tabor. Let us listen to the beloved Son of God, not merely as a historical figure but as the ever-present Teacher and Redeemer. In our daily tribulations and our spiritual journey, may the light of Tabor guide us, and may we, like the disciples, rise and fear not, for our Lord is ever with us, illuminating our path to the eternal.

In this, our celebration of Buhe is not just a festive tradition but a profound participation in the divine life, a testament to our journey towards the everlasting light of Christ. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3250 | date:2024-08-21T01:49:47 ---


--- id:3251 | date:2024-08-21T01:50:06 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Communion 

👉What is the Holy Communion?

👉What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion?

👉Who founded the Holy Communion?

👉Why is the Holy Communion called a Mystery?

👉Who is worthy of the Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do before receiving Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do when we receive Holy Communion?

👉What are major points we need to understand before receiving it?

👉What precautions should we take after receiving Holy Communion?

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the questions on the topic above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.


About the Holy Communion, its Origin and the ceremony

According to the canon of our Church, the Holy Eucharist (Qurban) is one of the seven sacraments of the Church. Qurban is a Surist and Greek (Arabic) word that means blessing, gift of money, knowledge, labor and time. In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.
 
In the Old Testament era, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called 'sacrifice', 'communion'.
 
But in the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile himself with mankind. Therefore, the sacrament means the perfect body and blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior, the Lamb of God.

It is our God, our Savior, Jesus Christ, who founded the sacrament of the Holy Communion. And the day he started the system is the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. When our savior established this great system and secret, only his twelve disciples were with him, and he did not reveal it to all the people who were following him as before. This is the reason why the Church still presents it with a veil and honor. When our Lord was sacrificed on the cross, in order to cover Him, the sun was dark the moon was covered with blood and the stars dropped down like withered fruit like chilies . Even the angels of heaven dare not touch the sacrifice, for this is given only to the priests.
 
The Holy Communion is called a mystery. Our Lord Jesus Christ took the bread, blessed it, consecrated it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "This is my flesh." Therefore, it is a great mystery that the bread is changed into the flesh of God the Son  (the flesh of God) and the wine is the blood of God the Son  (blood of God), that is why it is called the mystery. (Matthew 26:26, Mark 14:22) Even today, the priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat, and they prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread into the flesh of God and the wine into the blood of God, the authority of the priest, the word of God, and through the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God) and the wine into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God). This makes the Holy Communion a mystery because it is hidden from the unbeliever, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. In addition, visible service is given the secret of invisible grace.
 
Major Points that we need to understand before receiving Holy Communion
 
- We must believe without doubt that the bread and wine are changed into the body and blood of Jesus Christ. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body..this is my blood, drink. (Matthew 26:26)

(Part 2 to be continued )👇

--- id:3252 | date:2024-08-21T01:54:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  2 (Cont'd)

- It is necessary to believe that the Holy Communion is given to heal the stain of sin and to heal the wound of sin. He said, "Drink of it, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.'" (Matthew 26:27)

- It must be acknowledged that it leads to eternal life. "Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day" (John 6:53).
 
- All those who partake of the Holy Communion must believe that Christ is with them, that they live together with Christ, that His flesh is united with their flesh, and their blood is united with His blood, and that their God is united with them by grace. (He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives with me, and I live in him" (John 6:56).

- It is necessary to repent from past sins, confess, return and guard against future sins. "After that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God." (Mark 1:14) The Kingdom of God refers to His Holy Body and His Precious Blood.
 
- There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion. From the day we were baptized on the 40th and 80th day after birth, where by we become being children of God and received the Holy Communion, we should not stay away from the Holy Communion since then until the end of our lives. It is a great mistake to think of youth as sinfulness in itself or a life unfit for the sacrament, and to think that we should  receive only in infancy and youth. There is no set age for approaching the Holy Communion and not approaching. The only thing that keeps us away from the Holy Communion is if we are highly involved in a particular sin and that we still do now and then being unable stop it. We should take a gap and and make sure to be committed to stop that particular sin first.  Unbelief should not be admitted to sin without repentance. "And now, says the Lord, return to me with all your hearts, fasting, weeping and wailing" (Acts 2:12).
 
 
- Husband and wife should receive Holy Communion together at the first time. If a husband and wife have not received the sacrament together before, it is not allowed for them to receive it separately or one side alone. But after they once received it together, they have already confirmed their unity in flesh and spirit, they can be receive separately. 
 
- In general, because our salvation Jesus Christ died for all, it is a wrong attitude to take the difference between married and single, race, color, sex and age. A person should live by receiving Holy Communion from his childhood until he gets married, when he gets married (together with his husband/wife), and after marriage until his death.
 
Points We  Need to know upon Preparation to receive Holy Communion
 
 
1.       Prepare with absolute faith. We should believe that what we receive is the holy body and precious blood of our Lord, who died on the cross of Calvary on Friday for the world's salvation. In addition, we should strengthned our belive saying to our self :- " I will find forgiveness through repentance for the sins I committed; I will find the strength to be protected from future sins, Christ is in me and I will live in Christ, I will find eternal salvation, I will be protected from a sick body and a sick soul." Saying this, we need to prepare with complete faith and always repent from sin before being anointed and prepare to receive it with faith.
 
(Part 2 to be continued)👇

--- id:3253 | date:2024-08-21T01:58:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  3 (Cont'd)

2.       If those receiving Holy Communion are married, they should abstain from sexual intercourse for 3 days before receiving Holy Communion. Sexual intercourse on permitted days in marriage is not a sin, but since it is an act of the flesh , so this period is also one of the forbidden days in terms of giving respect to the sacrament.
 
3.       Anyone who repents and is freed from his sins should keep his heart away from revenge and his body away from wrongdoing.

4.       In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food and water, and wait until the feeling of food being removed from the stomach.

5.       If one sees inappropriate dreams, they will not receive Holy Communion that day. Also, if there is bleeding on anypart of a body, bleeding wound,  or if vomited, or if flys like a mosquito bite entered our the mouth or nose, it is not possible to receive on that day.

6. On the eve of the day we plan to receive Holy Communion, we should take a bath and clean what we wear.

7. Before starting the mass, it is necessary to attend the church and properly follow /consecrate the mass. We should be present before Liturgy starts, and ideally attend the services before that as well. 

8. A woman should  not receive until 7th days of her menstruation. Then she washes her body and can receives on the 8th day or after then. Also at the time of childbirth she does not receive it until he day of the Christening of the child. "If a woman gives birth, it means 80 days, if she gives birth to a boy, it means 40 days" (Leviticus 12:1-5)

Points we need to know when we present at Church to receive Holy Communion

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 

Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:3264 | date:2024-08-24T23:55:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Doctrine of #Free_Will

Brethren esteemed in faith and lovers of the apostolic teachings, we gather under the sanctity of our common hope in Christ to delve into the profound mystery of free will—a gift divinely bestowed upon man, as recorded in the holy writ and expounded by the Church Fathers.

The Dignity of Man and the Gift of Free Will

From the sacred pages of Genesis, we learn that man was created in the imago Dei, that is, in the image of God Himself (Genesis 1:26-27). This divine image endows man with a unique capacity among all creatures—the capacity for free will. Just as God exercises sovereignty over creation, so too man, His earthly image-bearer, is granted the freedom to govern his actions, to choose between good and evil. Job poetically affirms this truth, stating, "Your hands shaped me and made me" (Job 10:8), underscoring the craftsmanship of God in fashioning man with such glorious attributes.

The Consequence of Free Will: Choice and Predestination

While it is God’s fervent desire that "all men be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth" (1 Timothy 2:4), the fulfillment of this divine will hinges on the exercise of human free will. Our Lord does not compel salvation; rather, He offers it freely, allowing each soul to respond out of its own volition. This interplay between divine predestination and human freedom forms the core of our moral existence.

The Struggle Between Good and Evil

Saint Athanasius vividly illustrates the human condition through the prism of nobility and humility. When man fails to recognize his nobility—his intrinsic worth and the high calling to which he is summoned—he descends into spiritual slavery, becoming subjugated by those vices that should have no dominion over him. This 'slavery of will,' as it might be termed, manifests when man, swayed by his baser instincts, opts for sin, thereby aligning himself not with divine virtues but with the corrupting influences of the world.

The Path of Sin and Its Remediation

The wisdom of Solomon admonishes us against desiring death through the errors of our life (Wisdom 1:12). Human beings, in their freedom, can choose actions that lead to spiritual and eternal death. The Apostle James expands on this, teaching that temptation is born of personal desire, which, when conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is fully grown, gives rise to death (James 1:14-15). Yet, this dire progression is not inevitable. The bondage of the will to sin is not a permanent state if one turns towards God’s mercy and grace.

Salvation Through Submission to God

Apostle Peter calls us to a higher obedience, to become slaves not to sin but to righteousness (2 Peter 2:19). In embracing God’s will, we exchange the yoke of worldly bondage for the light yoke of divine glory. It is through willing submission to God that we find true freedom—the freedom to act in accordance with our created purpose and to partake in the divine nature.

Practical Steps Towards Freedom in God

The struggle between the flesh and the spirit is an enduring conflict in the Christian journey. However, it is through the spiritual disciplines of prayer and fasting that we fortify our spirit and enhance our capacity to choose the good. Christ Himself assures us that our prayers, when offered in sincerity and faith, will not be disregarded (Matthew 7:7). Therefore, let us approach the throne of grace boldly, seeking the strength to sever the cords of sinful desires that entangle our will.

A Prayerful Exhortation

May God, in His infinite mercy, cut the ropes of sin that bind our wills. Let us strive to align our wills with His divine will, remembering always that in the freedom to choose lies the path to true sanctity and salvation. As we navigate the complexities of our moral choices, may we ever hold fast to the promise of divine assistance and the hope of eternal life bestowed upon us through the gracious love of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs.

--- id:3269 | date:2024-08-25T22:09:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 On the Nature of #Sin

Introduction

Beloved in Christ, let us embark on a spiritual examination of the gravest malady that afflicts the soul of man—sin. It is imperative for every Christian to engage in a vigilant struggle against sin, for it is through understanding its causes that we may find the means to avoid its snares.

1. Self-awareness and the Grace of Discernment

The faculty of self-awareness, a divine endowment exclusive to man and angels, sets us apart from the beasts of the field. This grace enables man to reflect upon his actions and to discern between virtue and vice. Our learned forebears teach us that intellect—this capacity for knowledge—is a spiritual treasury that fortifies the soul against sin and inclines it toward the good.

Yet, herein lies a battleground where knowledge and emotion vie fiercely. When desires override our intellectual discernment, leading us astray, we act out of base impulse rather than righteous deliberation. Remember the words of the ancient monastics: just as animals are drawn instinctively to their desires, so too can man fall prey to habitual sins unless he actively cultivates a distaste for them. Sin, therefore, must be approached as a deadly poison, shunned in thought, word, and deed.

2. The Perils of Short-sightedness

Another peril is the myopia of considering only immediate gratifications, neglecting the eternal perspective that our faith commands. The Apostle Paul exhorts us to run the race with an eye not on the fleeting pleasures but on the heavenly prize that awaits the faithful. This short-sightedness breeds sins of the flesh, for it disregards the divine injunction to reflect on our past actions, live conscientiously in the present, and consider the ultimate consequences of our deeds.

3. The Snare of Neglect

Neglect, too, is a subtle yet profound enabler of sin. It manifests in two forms: the failure to seek knowledge of the good and the inability to apply the good we know. The desert fathers warn that spiritual laxity, such as the neglect of prayer, opens wide the gates for greater sins to enter our hearts, for without constant communion with God, we are defenseless against temptation.

4. Free Will and Moral Agency

Central to our human condition is the gift of free will—the divine breath that animates our moral life. This gift empowers us to choose between life and death, blessing and cursing. Yet, this freedom is a double-edged sword: it can elevate us to the heights of sanctity or plunge us into the depths of depravity. We must, therefore, be vigilant, steering our free will towards righteousness, aware that the misuse of our liberty is the font of sin.

The adversary often uses our own desires to entice us into sin, thus corrupting our reason and our will. It is crucial to recognize and master these impulses, for our bodies, if governed by unbridled passions, become tools of the devil.

5. Conscience: The Inner Sentinel

Conscience is that divine spark within us that transcends time, alerting us to the spiritual and moral dimensions of our actions. This inner sentinel guides us away from the carnal and towards the celestial. When our conscience is clear, our spiritual vision is sharp; but when it is clouded by sin, our spiritual life suffers. To cleanse our conscience, we must engage in spiritual disciplines such as fasting, prayer, and repentance—these are our weapons against the encroachments of evil.

6. The Role of Accountability

Lastly, we must speak of accountability. True moral responsibility arises from a clear understanding of our actions and their implications. Without a profound appreciation of the stakes—eternal life and divine judgment—we are prone to trivialize sin. Every sin committed with knowledge and consent is a betrayal of our divine calling, and thus, we are held accountable before God.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:3270 | date:2024-08-25T22:11:01 ---
(Continued)☝️

In conclusion, brethren, let us heed the exhortation of the Scriptures and the wisdom of our Fathers. We must recognize and utilize the graces bestowed upon us, not as entitlements to squander but as tools for our sanctification. In doing so, we shall escape the snares of sin and walk steadfastly toward our heavenly inheritance. Let us, therefore, choose life, that we and our progeny may live in the light of Christ. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3273 | date:2024-08-26T23:39:03 ---


--- id:3274 | date:2024-08-26T23:40:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Walking in #Love: A Reflection on Ephesians 5:2

Introduction

Brethren, as we gather today beneath the vast expanse of God's grace, let us ponder deeply upon the profound message delivered to us through the words of Saint Paul in Ephesians 5:2: "Walk in love, just as Christ gave himself up for you as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God." This scripture not only calls us to action but to a transformation that transcends the mere adherence to doctrine—it calls us to embody the very essence of Christ's sacrifice.

The Call to Sacrificial Love

In the Orthodox faith, the understanding of sacrifice is profoundly rooted in the incarnation and offering of Christ Himself. Our Lord did not come to us bearing the insignia of worldly power, nor did He offer sacrifices of bulls and goats. Instead, He presented His own life as a living testament to divine love. Thus, our approach to sacrifice must be aligned with this example; it is not the killing of animals that God seeks from us today, but the offering of ourselves. 

The True Nature of Sacrifice

As translated by our holy father Yohannes Afework, "sacrifice" in the new covenant does not necessitate a priesthood or an altar made of stone. Rather, the sacrifices God desires are those of mercy, compassion, love, patience, humility, and meekness. These virtues form the very fabric of our spiritual offerings and are the nets with which we capture the essence of true Christianity.

The Virtue of Patience and Its Perils

Our path in Christ is often fraught with trials that test our resolve and patience. In our marriages, our communities, and our daily encounters, patience must be a steadfast companion. Yet, we must guard against the pride that can surreptitiously accompany patience. It is a virtue that requires humility; without it, even the most patient among us fall prey to the vice of pride, masking their endurance as a badge of honor rather than a mark of grace.

Patience as a Gateway to Divine Acceptance

The act of enduring difficulties, whether they be related to poverty, chastity, or obedience, is akin to passing through a refining fire. This fire—God’s love—consumes our offerings and purifies us, enabling us to live in peace with God as did our ancestors whose sacrifices were accepted with heavenly fire. Thus, in every challenge and in every moment of waiting, there lies an opportunity to draw nearer to God.

The Role of Prayer in Patience

Prayer is the sacrifice that requires no temple but the heart. It is a dialogue with God that demands sincerity, humility, and a spirit unburdened by sin. Like the prophets of old—Elias who commanded the heavens, Joshua who parted the sea, and Daniel who silenced lions—our prayers too can exhibit miraculous power when they are offered with a pure heart.

The Dangers of Materialism and Misplaced Love

In our age, there are many forms of idolatry that can divert us from the path of true love—love for God. The love of money, power, or carnal beauty often leads us into spiritual lethargy. We are warned by Saint John the Baptist not to be deceived by outward appearances or by the transient pleasures of the flesh. Instead, we are called to nurture a love that transcends the physical—a love that burns with the purity of divine passion.

Conclusion

Therefore, dear brethren, let us walk in love as Christ loved us, making every act, every thought, and every prayer a fragrant offering to God. Let us turn away from the ephemeral desires of the flesh and kindle within ourselves the fire of divine love. Through this holy transformation, we become true children of God, capable of both enduring and overcoming the world. In this, we find not only the essence of Christ’s teachings but the path to our own redemption and sanctification.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3282 | date:2024-08-29T23:31:00 ---


--- id:3283 | date:2024-08-29T23:31:00 ---


--- id:3288 | date:2024-08-31T23:49:05 ---


--- id:3289 | date:2024-08-31T23:49:06 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About Holy #Liturgy 

Brethren in Christ, let us delve deeply into the divine mysteries of the Liturgy, that celestial banquet where heaven and earth are wed in a holy union through Christ our Lord. Let us explore the profound spirituality and theological richness of the Orthodox Liturgy, which mirrors the teachings and actions of our Lord Jesus Christ and His apostles.

The Essence of Liturgy in Unity with God

At the heart of our faith is the principle of unity—unity with God and unity among His creation. This unity is vividly expressed in the celebration of the Liturgy, where the simple elements of bread and wine are transformed into the Body and Blood of Christ. This miraculous transformation harkens back to the Last Supper, where Christ Himself declared, "This is my body... This cup is the new covenant in my blood" (Luke 22:19-20). Such words are not merely to be heard but lived, as they guide us to live in communion with God.

In the Liturgy, we re-enact this divine mystery. The act of "taking bread" signifies our role as stewards of God's creation, offering back to God the gifts He has bestowed upon us. It is on the holy altar that this offering is raised, accompanied by thanksgiving, symbolizing our gratitude and acknowledgment of His continual grace upon us. This dual act of offering and thanking encapsulates the essence of the Eucharistic celebration, where what is offered in love returns to us as sanctified grace, strengthening and unifying the Church.

The Ascension of the Church: A Journey to Heaven

The Liturgy is an ascent—an ethereal journey towards the celestial realm. Just as a guide might announce the destination before embarking on a journey, so too does the priest proclaim the heavenly destination of the Liturgy. The preparatory prayers of the priest liken the church to a divine chariot that ascends to join the perpetual thanksgiving of the angels. In this sacred act, we are urged to "lift up our hearts," a call to transcend earthly concerns and enter into the spiritual reality of God's kingdom.

As we participate in the Liturgy, we are not merely onlookers but active participants in the divine life. This participation is echoed in the liturgical response, "We are with God our God," affirming our presence in the divine assembly and our unity with the Holy Trinity. Thus, the Liturgy is not confined to the temporal realm but is a foretaste of the eternal praise that we are called to join.

The heavenly Wedding: The Mystical Union of Christ and His Church

The Liturgy is also described as a "heavenly Wedding," a mystical union where Christ, the heavenly bridegroom, offers Himself as both the sacrifice and the sustainer. This analogy deepens our understanding of the Eucharistic feast as a wedding banquet where the Son of God presents Himself as the food and drink, eternal sustenance for His bride—the Church.

This heavenly banquet is unique because Christ is both host and meal, the One who invites and the One who nourishes. The Liturgy fulfills the ancient prophecies and the miraculous events at Cana, revealing the profound mystery of God's love for His people. As participants in this divine wedding, we are united not only with Christ but also with the heavenly host in a celebration of eternal communion.

The Perpetual Thanksgiving and Communion

After partaking of the Holy Eucharist, our response is one of thanksgiving and praise, akin to the disciples who sang a hymn before ascending the Mount of Olives (Matthew 26:30). This post-communion thanksgiving is essential, for it reflects our acknowledgment of the grace received and our role in carrying forth the divine love and unity experienced in the Liturgy into our daily lives.

In this divine Liturgy, we are invited to witness and participate in the mystery of Christ's sacrificial love, to lift our hearts to God, and to live out the unity to which we are called as members of His holy Church.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3290 | date:2024-08-31T23:52:01 ---
(Continued)☝️

As we leave the Liturgy, we carry with us the peace and grace of the heavenly realm, commissioned to be bearers of this divine mystery in the world.

Let us, therefore, approach this sacred mystery with awe and reverence, ever mindful of the holy covenant that binds us to our Creator and Redeemer. In the divine Liturgy, we find our true home, our spiritual sustenance, and our eternal calling.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3294 | date:2024-09-01T23:31:15 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A Homily on the #Six #Commandments of the #Gospel

Brethren in Christ, I greet you with the peace of our Lord, whose wisdom transcends the ages and whose teachings guide us toward the life eternal. Today, I invite you to delve into the profound depths of the commandments as presented in the New Testament, those which our Savior, Christ, redefined to elevate our spirits from the letter of the law to the spirit of divine grace.

The Foundation of the Gospels

In the scriptures of the Old Testament, the faithful adhered to the Ten Commandments, a covenant which shaped the moral foundation of God's chosen people. Yet, with the coming of Christ, these commandments were not abolished but fulfilled and transformed, deepening their essence and expanding their reach. Christ Himself proclaimed, "Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them" (Matthew 5:17). In this fulfillment, He distilled the extensive teachings into six profound commandments, focusing not solely on external adherence but on the internal transformation of the heart.

The First Commandment: On Anger and Murder

The first of these teachings addresses the commandment, "Thou shalt not kill." Christ expounded this law further, teaching us that it is not enough merely to abstain from physical violence. Rather, He illuminated the destructive power of anger, indicating that even in our hearts, hostility towards our brethren is akin to the act of murder. Thus, He commands us to reconcile with one another earnestly, purifying our hearts to foster a community of peace rather than discord.

The Second Commandment: On Lust and Adultery

The second commandment addresses the sin of adultery. Our Lord emphasized the sanctity of marriage and the purity of the heart. He taught that even looking at another with lustful intent is to commit adultery in one’s heart. Here, Christ calls us to a higher standard of purity, one that governs not only our actions but our innermost thoughts, guiding us to honor and respect the sacred bond of marriage, both in deed and in intention.

The Third Commandment: On Divorce

In His third teaching, Christ addresses the matter of divorce, reinforcing the indissolubility of marriage except in the gravest circumstances. By emphasizing the permanence of the marital bond, He teaches us the importance of faithfulness and commitment, thereby sanctifying the marital relationship and calling us to uphold our vows with the utmost seriousness.

The Fourth Commandment: On Oaths

The fourth commandment urges us to refrain from making oaths, instead advocating for a simple and honest communication: "Let your ‘Yes’ be ‘Yes,’ and your ‘No,’ ‘No’." In this, Christ warns against the casual invocation of divine witness in our oaths, reminding us of the sacredness of God's name and encouraging transparency and truth in all our dealings.

The Fifth Commandment: On Non-Resistance to Evil

The fifth commandment radically reinterprets the old law of "an eye for an eye." Christ calls us instead to "turn the other cheek," teaching us the power of meekness and forbearance. In this commandment, we are invited to reflect the boundless mercy of God, who forgives us and offers grace in the face of our transgressions. Thus, we too are to embody this divine mercy, responding to evil not with vengeance but with love and patience.

The Sixth Commandment: On Love for Enemies

Finally, the sixth commandment challenges us to love not only our neighbors but also our enemies. Christ commands us to mirror the unconditional love of the Father, who showers blessings upon the just and unjust alike. By loving those who oppose us, we manifest our divine lineage and reflect the perfect love of our Creator.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:3295 | date:2024-09-01T23:31:15 ---
(Continued) ☝️

These six commandments, brethren, are not mere rules but pathways to transformation. They call us from the old self of sin and death into the new life of righteousness and peace in Christ. As we contemplate these divine precepts, let us strive to internalize them, allowing them to permeate our actions and renew our minds, that we might live not under the law but under grace, exemplifying the love of God in every thought, word, and deed. Let us go forth in peace, fortified by the wisdom of our Lord Jesus Christ, to love and serve the Lord in gladness and singleness of heart. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3319 | date:2024-09-05T02:54:01 ---


--- id:3320 | date:2024-09-05T02:56:52 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Living in #Optimism

Beloved faithful, followers of the true and ancient teachings of our Holy Orthodox Tewahido Church, I greet you in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, with the grace of His everlasting peace.

Rejoice in Hope, Above All

The foundation of our joy and optimism must be grounded in hope. Our hope is not of this world, for it lies in the eternal Kingdom of Heaven. Let us reflect on this truth: whatever sufferings or trials befall us in this fleeting life, they are but stepping stones on the narrow path that leads to eternal life. Indeed, rejoice in the midst of your sufferings, for the world may trouble us, but our hearts can rest in the certainty that Christ has overcome it.

Fix your heart and mind on the Kingdom of Heaven. In Christ, we have the promise of eternal life. Rejoice in God’s promises to the saints, for He is ever faithful. Even now, let your heart be uplifted as you meditate on the heavenly association of angels and the assembly of the righteous. Such thoughts alone should stir our souls to deep joy.

Rejoice in Prayer

When you pray, consider the profound privilege of conversing with your Heavenly Father. Has He not cared for you from your youth? Has He not preserved you through every trial and challenge? How can you not be joyful when you speak with the One who has been your guide, your protector, and your peace? He, who has given you the spirit of sonship, allowing you to cry out, "Abba, Father!"

When you pray, let your heart ascend to the company of angels, and the saints who stand before the throne of God. This spiritual reality should fill you with gladness. Let every word you offer in prayer be a reminder that God hears you, that He aids you in your daily tasks, and that His providence goes before you.

In your prayers, bring before Him your needs and desires, trusting fully that He will answer according to His perfect will. Cast your burdens upon Him, for He cares for you. In this trust, find joy.

Rejoice in Thanksgiving

Thankfulness is the gateway to joy. Even when you seem to lack much in this life, remember that God’s provision has never failed you. Take a moment to thank Him for every good thing—your health, your family, your work. Even if these things are imperfect, recognize that there are many who do not enjoy them at all. Let your heart overflow with gratitude for the countless blessings God has poured out upon you, both seen and unseen.

Do not overlook the many miracles He has worked for you. From the moment of your creation to this very day, God’s hand has been upon your life. Recall how many dangers you have escaped, how many illnesses you have survived, even when there was no remedy in sight. Did He not sustain you in childhood, when you were vulnerable to disease and disaster? How many of us have narrowly escaped car accidents, war, or other calamities? 

Indeed, cry out in thanksgiving: “O Lord, my healer, what can I give You in return? I will sing of Your mercy!”

Think on Good Things

The mind is the battlefield of the soul, and what we dwell on shapes who we become. Just as gravity pulls everything to the ground, so too do our thoughts shape our character. Think of yourself and others with charity and grace. Do not burden yourself with thoughts of inadequacy, but strive to improve and grow in holiness. Look to St. Paul as your role model—one who pressed forward, forgetting what lay behind, striving toward the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.

Do not compare yourself to others in bitterness. Instead, follow their virtues while acknowledging that every person’s journey is unique. God has given you a path, and it is enough.

Find Joy in Sacred Practices

Rejoice in the simple yet profound acts of worship that fill our Orthodox faith. Listening to our sacred hymns will lift your heart toward God. Practicing the use of musical instruments in worship is a source of great delight, one that draws you deeper into the mysteries of our faith.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3321 | date:2024-09-05T03:01:01 ---
(Continued) ☝️

And let us not forget the joy that comes from reading Holy Scripture and spiritual books. These are food for the soul, nourishment that calms the mind, fills us with hope, and leads us to repentance. Immerse yourself in these sacred texts, for they connect you with the wisdom of the saints and the very heart of God.

Avoid Negativity and Embrace Repentance

Do not waste your energy on blaming others or dwelling on their faults. No one is perfect; just as others may have shortcomings, so too do you. Think the best of people and reject negativity. Sin clouds our vision, but repentance clears the soul and allows us to live in purity. Just as we wash our bodies to remove physical dirt, let repentance cleanse our souls and restore our joy.

Rejoice in Christ’s Sacrifice

Finally, the ultimate source of our happiness is found in Christ Himself. In receiving His body and blood in the Holy Eucharist, we partake in the deepest union with Him, the end of all our striving and the beginning of true joy. Every action we take, every thought we think, every prayer we utter, should lead us to this divine union. Christ is the wellspring of eternal joy, and in Him alone can we find true and lasting happiness.

Conclusion

If we embrace these principles—rejoicing in hope, prayer, thanksgiving, and sacred practices—we will discover a life of true joy in Christ. These are not fleeting emotions but deep, abiding truths that anchor us in God’s eternal promises.

May God grant us wisdom to understand these truths and fill our hearts with the hope of inheriting His eternal Kingdom. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3326 | date:2024-09-08T00:01:59 ---


--- id:3327 | date:2024-09-08T00:02:11 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Archangel St. #Rufael 

The Feast of Archangel Raphael, celebrated annually on Pagume 3 according to the Ethiopian calendar, is one of the most significant celebrations in the Church, filled with profound spiritual meaning. As with the archangels Michael and Gabriel, St. Raphael is exalted as a divine messenger and protector, entrusted with a unique mission toward humanity by the Almighty God. His name, composed of two Hebrew words—Rufa meaning "healing" and El meaning "God"—literally translates to "God heals," encapsulating his divinely appointed role as a healer and guide to the faithful.

1. Saint Raphael: The Healer of the Sick

One of the most prominent and cherished titles of St. Raphael is "Fewase Duyan," meaning "he who heals the sick" He is celebrated as an angel who carries out the will of God in healing both physical and spiritual ailments. The scriptures bear testimony to his healing ministry, beginning with his intervention in the Book of Tobit. In that sacred text, Raphael is revealed as a healer of human infirmities, a task he carries out on behalf of God, who is the ultimate source of all healing. Raphael’s healing touch not only cures physical sickness but also heals the soul. The prophet Enoch writes that Raphael is the angel appointed by God over all diseases and wounds of mankind (Enoch 10:13). This healing power is manifested in both the Old and New Testaments, where the angel's prayers and intercession allow for the restoration of the faithful to health.

Just as our Lord healed the sick during His earthly ministry—raising the paralytic man and restoring the sight of the blind—so Raphael, as an emissary of God, brings healing and renewal to the faithful, curing them of both bodily afflictions and the deeper wounds of sin. This power to heal is a grace bestowed upon the Church, wherein the faithful can seek comfort through prayer to the archangel, trusting in the divine mercy he mediates on their behalf.

2. "Fetahe Mahtsen": The Opener of the Barren Womb

In both the Old and New Testaments, we encounter numerous women who were barren but, by the grace of God, were blessed with children. These miraculous conceptions were often heralded by the intercession of angels. The scripture recounts the stories of Sarah, the mother of Isaac; Hannah, the mother of Samuel; and Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist. To this day, many faithful call upon St. Raphael during times of infertility or difficulty in childbirth, trusting in his role as the Fetahe Mahtsen, the one who "opens the womb." Raphael is known to care for both mothers and children from conception to birth, interceding for the health and well-being of those who are pregnant or seeking to conceive. His presence is invoked in the moments of labor, where women, overwhelmed by the pains of childbirth, call upon him for relief and swift delivery. Through his intercession, the barren womb is opened, and the hand of God is made manifest in the joy of motherhood.

3. "Sadade Aganant": The Chaser of Demons

In the spiritual struggle that each believer faces, Saint Raphael stands as a guardian and protector against the forces of darkness. Just as Christ Himself cast out demons during His ministry, St. Raphael too is renowned for his power to expel evil spirits. The story of Sarah, from the story of Tobit, is a prime example, where Raphael delivers her from the demon who had caused the death of her previous seven husbands. This story, from the Book of Tobit, illustrates how Raphael intervenes in moments of great spiritual peril, driving out demons and restoring peace to those who suffer under the weight of evil.

Raphael's role as a protector is not limited to ancient texts. Even today, he is invoked in prayers for protection against demonic forces, malicious spirits, and all forms of temptation and sin. The faithful call upon him when they face spiritual battles, trusting in his God-given power to chase away the enemy and restore divine peace to their hearts and homes.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3328 | date:2024-09-08T00:06:01 ---
4. "Akabe Hohat": The Guardian of the Door of Mercy

St. Raphael is also called the Guardian of the Door of Mercy, one of the holy angels who acts as a mediator between heaven and earth. He is one of the seven angels who stand before God’s throne, offering up the prayers of the saints (Revelation 8:2). In his own testimony, Raphael declares himself as the one who carries the prayers of the saints to the Almighty, revealing his critical role as a messenger who connects the faithful to their Creator.

One notable miracle attributed to St. Raphael occurred in Alexandria, where, through his intercession, the faithful were saved from destruction when a devil attempted to destroy a church. When called upon, Raphael commanded the demon to stand still, saving the worshipers and reinforcing his role as the guardian who watches over the faithful, ensuring that God’s mercy flows abundantly to His people.

5. "Meraë Fênot": The Leader of the Way

When Tobit sent his son Tobias on a journey to recover money owed to him, it was St. Raphael, in the guise of Azarias, who accompanied him. During this journey, Raphael acted not only as a physical guide but also as a spiritual protector, safeguarding Tobias from harm. At one point, Tobias was attacked by a large fish while bathing in the Tigris River, and it was Raphael who instructed him to capture the fish, using parts of it later to heal his father’s blindness and to drive away the demon afflicting his wife-to-be, Sarah.

This divine guidance is mirrored in the lives of the faithful today, where St. Raphael is called upon as the Guide of the Way, leading people safely through the trials and tribulations of life. He walks alongside them, protecting them from harm and guiding them toward the fulfillment of God’s will. His guidance is a reflection of God’s providential care for His people, ensuring that no soul is lost on the journey toward salvation.

6. "Melake Kebkab": The Blesser of Marriages

As the angel who blessed the marriage of Tobias and Sarah, Raphael is known as the Angel of Peace in Marriage. When Sarah’s previous seven husbands were slain by a demon, it was St. Raphael who drove the demon away and ensured that her marriage to Tobias was blessed and fruitful. As an angel of peace, he continues to intercede for marriages, bringing harmony and divine favor to the union of husband and wife. Couples call upon him to protect their homes from discord, to foster love, and to ensure that their marriage is rooted in the will of God.

7. "Kesate Eweran": The Enlightener of the Blind

St. Raphael’s ministry to Tobit, the father of Tobias, culminates in the healing of his blindness. After Tobias returns from his journey, Raphael instructs him to use the gall of the fish to cure his father’s blindness. In this act, Raphael reveals his role as the Kesate Ouran, the one who enlightens the blind. This role extends beyond physical blindness, as Raphael is also invoked to heal the spiritual blindness that clouds the hearts and minds of those who stray from the light of God. Through his prayers, the faithful seek enlightenment, a deeper understanding of divine truths, and clarity in their spiritual journey.

Conclusion: The Role of St. Raphael in Our Lives

The annual feast of Archangel Raphael on Pagume 3 marks a sacred time of reflection and renewal. It signifies the closing of the old year and the anticipation of the new, mirroring the eternal hope of resurrection and renewal that is promised in Christ. Ethiopian Christians, during this time, immerse themselves in prayer, fasting, and contemplation, seeking the blessings of St. Raphael, whose intercession is powerful in matters of health, marriage, protection, and spiritual enlightenment. His name, meaning "God heals," reminds the faithful that, through the archangel, God's healing grace flows abundantly, restoring not only the body but also the soul.

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:3329 | date:2024-09-08T00:21:30 ---
(Continued)☝️

May the intercession of St. Raphael bring healing to those who are ill, peace to those who are troubled, and guidance to all who seek to walk in the light of God's mercy. Let us, with faith and devotion, call upon this mighty archangel, trusting in his constant prayers and protection, knowing that, through him, God’s love and healing are made manifest in our lives.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3334 | date:2024-09-09T23:31:04 ---
👉🏾 About our Lord and Savior #Jesus #Christ 

Question፦ Who is the name above all names?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ,

The name above all names is our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. As St. Paul writes in the Holy Scriptures, "Therefore God also has highly exalted Him and given Him the name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, and of those on earth, and of those under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father" (Philippians 2:9-11).

In this sacred truth, we find the fullness of our salvation and the way to true life. To live in repentance and humility is to bow before this Holy Name in every thought and action. 

What can you do today to honor and proclaim this name in your life?

In Christ’s love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3336 | date:2024-09-09T23:40:44 ---


--- id:3337 | date:2024-09-09T23:40:48 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Goals every #Christian should have

Beloved brethren, hear the words that pour forth from the wisdom of God, the wellspring of life, the teachings that bind the soul to its true purpose. Let us speak, as one illumined by the grace of our Lord, on the goals that every Christian must hold, not as fleeting thoughts but as divine purposes etched upon the heart. For the life of a Christian is not a life lived in the shadows of the world, but in the light of eternity, aimed at heaven, where the glory of God awaits those who walk the narrow way. What, then, should be the goals that a Christian heart cherishes, pursues, and accomplishes? Let us unfold these truths, as the Lord has revealed them to us, that we may live according to His holy will.

1. The Inheritance of the Kingdom of Heaven

The chief goal of every Christian, beloved, is nothing less than the inheritance of the Kingdom of Heaven. For what are we if not pilgrims in a foreign land, moving ever onward toward our eternal home? “If our earthly dwelling, which is a tent, is destroyed,” says the Apostle, “we know that we have a building made by God in heaven, which is not made with hands, but an eternal house” (2 Corinthians 5:1). We are not here for the satisfaction of temporal needs alone, but we walk through this world to gain that which is imperishable. Let your hearts not be captivated by the fleeting pleasures and sufferings of this life, but fix your eyes on the heavenly kingdom where Christ awaits to crown those who endure in faith. For this is the true treasure, the only treasure worth pursuing, where “moth and rust do not destroy” (Matthew 6:19).

2. A Clear and Defined Purpose

A Christian does not wander aimlessly through life. No, beloved, we do not drift like leaves upon the wind, tossed by every desire or whim. Our purpose is clear, illuminated by the light of God’s will. We are called to live with intention, to walk in the paths laid before us by Christ Himself. We do not speak of chance or coincidence, for our lives are governed by the providence of God. To this end, we must pray unceasingly, that our steps may align with His will: “Pray without ceasing” (1 Thessalonians 5:17). How can we claim to follow Christ if we do not seek His guidance at every turn? Pray, therefore, for strength to fulfill the divine purpose, that your life may reflect the certainty and steadfastness of one called by God.

3. Self-Disclosure: Bearing Witness to Christ

A Christian does not hide their identity, for a city set on a hill cannot be hidden (Matthew 5:14). Wherever we go, we must reveal who we are—not through empty words or proclamations, but through the very manner of our lives. We are Christians, and this must be evident in our homes, our places of work, and in the wider community. Let our lives shine with the light of Christ so that others may see and glorify our Father in heaven. It is not enough to profess faith with our lips; our actions, our demeanor, and our love must speak even louder. Thus, our goal is to be a living testimony, to carry Christ with us wherever we go, that others may see and believe.

4. Loyalty and Integrity

What is a Christian if not one who stands firm in truth and loyalty? We are not to be found wavering, betraying trust, or breaking our word. Loyalty is the bedrock of Christian life. As Christ said, “He who is faithful in a very little thing is faithful also in much” (Luke 16:10). Whether in marriage, in work, or in any responsibility placed upon us, we must be trustworthy. Consider Joseph, who, though tempted and betrayed, did not falter but remained loyal to his God (Genesis 39:9). Let your life be marked by such steadfastness, for it is this loyalty that God rewards with greater responsibilities in His eternal kingdom.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:3338 | date:2024-09-09T23:42:01 ---
(Continued)☝️ 

5. The Supreme Goal of Love

Love, dear brethren, is the crown of Christian virtue. If we have not love, we have nothing, for it is love that brought God from His throne to the cross. “Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends” (John 15:13). As Christians, we are called to love deeply, not merely in word but in deed. Love is the true manifestation of our faith, for it reflects the very nature of God. And whom do we love?

5.1 Loving God by Obeying His Commandments

Our love for God is shown not merely through emotion but through obedience. “He who has My commandments and keeps them is the one who loves Me” (John 14:21). How can we claim to love God if we do not follow His commands? Therefore, our goal must be to live in such a way that we fulfill His laws, for they are not burdensome but the path to true freedom.

5.2 Loving All That is God’s

To love God is to love all that belongs to Him. This includes honoring His saints, cherishing our nation, upholding the family, and loving all humanity.

5.2.1 Loving and Honoring the Saints

The saints are those whom God has set apart, honored, and glorified. “Those whom He predestined, He also called, justified, and glorified” (Romans 8:29). We honor the saints because they are reflections of God’s grace. Their lives encourage us to pursue holiness, and their intercessions uplift us in our struggles. Let our hearts be ever inclined to honor them, not with mere words, but with the humility that comes from knowing we are part of a great communion of faith.

5.2.2 Loving One’s Country

Our nation, too, is a gift from God. In it, we find the peace and order necessary to worship and serve Him. The Psalmist cried, “If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill” (Psalm 137:5). So, too, must we love our nation, for through it we can offer our thanks to God in peace and joy. A Christian must be a faithful citizen, upholding justice and seeking the welfare of the land, for the peace of the country enables the peace of the Church.

5.2.3 Loving the Family

The family is the first school of faith, where we learn the commandments of God and the virtues of love, patience, and humility. “If anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever” (1 Timothy 5:8). Our love for God is mirrored in our care for our families, for through them we learn the love that binds us to Christ.

5.2.4 Loving All Humanity

Finally, the Christian heart is one that loves all people, even enemies. “Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you” (Matthew 5:44). This is the height of Christian love, to embrace those who hate us and to return curses with blessings. In this way, we reflect the love of Christ, who died for us while we were still sinners.

6. Christian Life as a Public Witness

It is not enough to cultivate these virtues in private; they must be evident in every aspect of our lives. From the way we dress to the way we speak, a Christian’s life should be a clear testimony of faith. We must live in such a way that our Christianity is visible to all. “Let your light shine before men” (Matthew 5:16). In this, we fulfill the call to be a light to the world, that through us, others may come to know Christ.

7. Examining Ourselves in Personal and Social Life

In both our personal and social lives, we must constantly examine ourselves in light of these goals. In our personal lives, we are to repent, fast, pray, and partake of the sacraments, ever striving toward the heavenly kingdom. In our social lives, we must comfort the sorrowful, rejoice with those who rejoice, and offer help to those in need. For in doing these things, we carry within us the death and resurrection of Christ, revealing His life in our mortal bodies (2 Corinthians 4:10).

Beloved, let these goals guide your every step, for they are the marks of a true Christian, one who lives not for this world but for the glory of the world to come. Amen.

👇🏾👇🏾

--- id:3339 | date:2024-09-09T23:45:29 ---
☝️☝️

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3347 | date:2024-09-11T14:05:06 ---


--- id:3348 | date:2024-09-11T14:06:55 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Ethiopian #New_Year #2017

Beloved brethren, let us gather and contemplate upon the wondrous mystery and profound significance of the Ethiopian New Year, a celebration that bears not only the passage of time but a reflection of divine providence, spiritual renewal, and the unfolding of God’s sacred plan in our lives. As we journey through the intricacies of this holy occasion, let our hearts be stirred, our minds enlightened, and our souls rekindled with the fervor of repentance and the promise of spiritual regeneration.

The Mark of Time and the Changing of Eras

The Ethiopian New Year, known as Enkutatash, is more than a mere date on the calendar; it is the symbolic changing of eras, an event deeply rooted in both natural and divine order. This day of transition is called the Day of Saint John, a name filled with spiritual resonance, as it is John the Baptist who heralded the coming of the Messiah, standing at the crossroads of the Old and New Covenants. As the changemaker and the bearer of the prophetic voice crying out in the wilderness, the day bears his name, for it marks not only a temporal shift but the calling of the soul towards repentance and renewal. 

In the Ethiopian tradition, this festival is also called the Head of the Geez Year, recognizing its place as the very inception of the year’s cycle. It is celebrated on the first day of Meskerem, the first month of the Ethiopian calendar, which corresponds with the month of September in the Gregorian calendar. But why, we might ask, is the New Year celebrated on this day?

September: The Month of New Beginnings

The answer lies in both celestial and sacred order. In Ethiopia, September is the month when the lights of the heavens — the sun, moon, and stars — complete their annual cycle. The month of Pagume, the last of the year, closes with the alignment of these heavenly bodies, and with the dawn of September, the balance between day and night is restored. On the first of Meskerem, the day and night are equal, each lasting twelve hours, reflecting a perfect harmony that mirrors the ordered cosmos. The year, measured according to the divine structure, totals 364 days, with this moment of equilibrium ushering in a new beginning.

The Biblical Foundations of the New Year

The Ethiopian New Year is not simply a seasonal festival, but a day that reverberates with biblical significance. As the book of Enoch declares, "He created the sun and the moon and the stars to be the identity of the times" (Enoch 21:49). This heavenly order is not random but divinely ordained, a signpost of God’s sovereignty over time and creation.

Moreover, the New Year is linked to the flood of Noah, that cataclysmic event which purged the earth of its sin. It is recorded in the ancient texts, "In the first month the earth appeared, and the waters of the river dried up from the earth" (Kufale 7:1). It was in this first month, Meskerem, that the waters receded, revealing the land anew — a fitting metaphor for the renewal we experience at the dawn of a new year. Just as the earth was cleansed, so too are we called to begin afresh, to be washed of the sins of the past and emerge renewed in spirit.

The Evangelists and the Cycle of Time

In the wisdom of the Ethiopian Church, the passing of time is also measured according to the four evangelists — Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. Each evangelist is associated with a particular era in the divine narrative of salvation. As scholars of the Church explain, Matthew's era marks the conception of Christ, Mark's era His baptism, Luke's era His crucifixion, and John's era the culmination of His eternal reign.

To determine which era governs the present year, the faithful add the Year of Mercy (our current year) to the Year of Condemnation (5500, marking the years from Adam to Christ) and divide the sum by four. The remainder reveals the evangelist of the era:

- If the remainder is zero, it is John’s era.
- If one, it is Matthew’s era.
- If two, it is Mark’s era.
- If three, it is Luke’s era.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3349 | date:2024-09-11T14:09:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

This method ties the movement of time not just to history but to the eternal story of salvation, reminding us that each year is imbued with its own spiritual significance and call to reflection on the Gospel.

Nature and Renewal: The Ethiopian Landscape

The New Year is not only a time of spiritual renewal but also one where the very land seems to reflect the work of the Creator. In Ethiopia, September marks the end of the rainy season, when the earth is washed clean by the rains, and the arid plains burst forth with new life. The valleys, plains, and mountains are clothed in the verdant beauty of spring, a sign of the earth’s renewal that mirrors the renewal we seek in our souls. This day, fittingly named Enqutatash, is a time when children, dressed in white, go forth with ketemas and flowers, singing songs of joy, their innocence reflecting the purity we seek as we begin anew.

The Significance of Saint John

It is no accident that this sacred day is linked to Saint John the Baptist, for it was John who, standing at the threshold of the Old and New, cried out, "The kingdom of heaven is near; repent!" (Mark 1:14). As the forerunner of Christ, John called the people to prepare their hearts for the coming of the Messiah, to repent and be baptized, to turn from sin and embrace the new life offered through Christ. 

In this way, the Ethiopian New Year mirrors John’s message: it is a time to turn from the past, to seek reconciliation, and to embrace the mercy of God. The day itself, as we have seen, is dedicated to his memory, for John is the gatekeeper between the old era and the new, just as we stand on the cusp of a new year, called to repentance and renewal.

A Calendar Set Apart

One might ask, why is the Ethiopian calendar different from that of the Western world? The wisdom of the Ethiopian Church, preserved through the ages, has its own rhythm, marked by the historical and theological distinction that the Church observes. The West, influenced by the Roman system, marks time according to the destruction of Rome or the conquests of Alexander. In contrast, the Ethiopian Church traces its roots to the year 5500 BC, a calculation grounded in the sacred history of salvation, making the Ethiopian calendar seven years apart from the Gregorian. 

This difference is not merely technical but deeply theological, for the Ethiopian Church grounds its understanding of time in the life of Christ and the sacred story, a testament to its ancient roots and profound continuity with the early Church.

The Call to Spiritual Renewal

As we enter the New Year, beloved brethren, the call is not simply to mark time but to transform our lives. As the Apostle Peter admonishes us, "Enough is the past time, when you did the will of the Gentiles, in debauchery, carnal lust, drunkenness, and shameless idolatry" (1 Peter 4:3). The New Year is a sacred opportunity given to us by God to correct the mistakes of the past, to reconcile with those whom we have wronged, and to commit ourselves to lives of holiness.

Let us not, as Peter warns, be lulled into thinking that God overlooks our sins because He has delayed His judgment. Rather, let us take this time of grace to repent, to turn from the sinful pleasures of the world, and to focus our hearts on the things of heaven. This is not a time for earthly celebrations filled with vanity and excess, but a time to go before God, to clothe the naked, feed the hungry, and give drink to the thirsty. This is the true celebration of the New Year, a celebration of repentance and righteousness.

Conclusion: Bearing Fruit for the Kingdom

As we embark upon this New Year, let us heed the parable of the barren fig tree, where the Lord, finding no fruit, says, "Cut it down." Yet, in His mercy, He gives it one more year to bear fruit (Luke 13:6-9). So too are we given this new year, this age of credit, to bear fruit for the kingdom of God. Let us rise from the slumber of sin, casting off the laziness of the past, and live lives worthy of our calling.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3350 | date:2024-09-11T14:12:01 ---
Continued ☝️  

May the Lord bless this New Year, granting us the grace to repent, to bear thirty, sixty, and a hundredfold fruit for His kingdom. And may we, through His mercy, inherit the eternal life promised to those who walk in His ways. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3355 | date:2024-09-17T00:30:36 ---


--- id:3356 | date:2024-09-17T00:32:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Creation 

Beloved brethren, let us meditate on the wondrous doctrine of creation, a doctrine that reveals to us not only the beginning of all things but also the wisdom, power, and goodness of our Almighty God. Creation, as taught by the holy fathers, is the very act by which God, in His infinite authority, brought into existence all things seen and unseen, tangible and intangible. It is a testimony not only to His power but to His love and purpose for His creatures. Let us, therefore, consider deeply what it means for God to create, and how this truth calls us to contemplate His majesty and our own place within His creation.

Creation from Nothing: The Supreme Power of God

In the beginning, as the sacred Scriptures teach us, “God created the heavens and the earth” (Genesis 1:1). This act of creation is unparalleled and incomprehensible to human reason, for it was not the work of a craftsman who fashioned something out of pre-existing materials. No, beloved, it was the act of God’s omnipotent will, who, with the simple command, "Let it be," brought forth from nothing all that exists (Isaiah 44:24). This is the very essence of creation: to bring into existence that which did not exist before. The grass that covers the fields, the rain that falls from the sky, the animals that move upon the earth, all these things owe their existence not to chance or to necessity but to the will of the Creator.

The creation of the universe reveals that God was under no compulsion, neither internal nor external. He was not driven by any lack within Himself, nor was He constrained by anything outside of Himself. His creation was an act of pure freedom, flowing from His wisdom and goodness. This, brethren, is the profound mystery of God’s omnipotence: He speaks, and out of the void, there arises life, order, and beauty.

The Existence of the Creator: Witnessed in the World

As we gaze upon the world around us, it becomes clear that creation itself bears witness to the Creator. The heavens are stretched out, the earth is spread wide, day and night succeed one another, seasons come and go, the winds blow, and the celestial bodies move in their appointed courses. How can these wonders exist without a Creator? They proclaim that there is a hand behind them, a hand that guides, sustains, and governs all things. "In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth," and from that moment forward, the whole cosmos declares His glory and His power.

The very name of this Creator is God, the Almighty One, who made all things good and beautiful. Creation itself testifies not only to His power but also to His wisdom. It is as if the order of creation is a book, and each creature is a letter written by God, revealing to us something of His divine nature. Every sunrise, every change of season, every living thing proclaims the artistry of the One who made it.

The Purpose of Creation: God’s Glory and Our Good

Why did God create the heavens and the earth? What was His purpose? It was not for His own benefit, for God is complete and perfect in Himself. He neither gains nor loses by His creation. Rather, the purpose of creation was twofold: first, to manifest His glory, and second, to prepare for us an inheritance in His eternal kingdom. As the Apostle teaches us, “We are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works” (Ephesians 2:10).

God created the world so that His name might be praised and His glory might be known. All creation, in its beauty and order, reflects the glory of God, and it is our duty as His creatures to acknowledge this glory and give Him thanks. Creation also serves as food for both body and soul. Just as God has provided for our physical nourishment through the fruits of the earth—meat, vegetables, and fruits—He has also prepared spiritual food for us. The wheat that becomes bread, the wine that becomes His sacred blood, these are but signs of the greater sustenance He offers to our souls.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3357 | date:2024-09-17T00:36:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

Learning from Creation: A Mirror of Divine Truth

Not only does creation reveal the existence of the Creator, but it also serves as a profound teacher. When we observe the cycles of nature, the growth of plants, the life and death of creatures, we learn spiritual truths. Just as a seed is buried in the ground and rises to new life, so too does man die and rise again in the resurrection (1 Corinthians 15:35-39). Creation becomes, in this way, a mirror of the deeper mysteries of God, teaching us of life, death, and the eternal life to come.

The Origin and Nature of Creation: Seen and Unseen

God created both the visible and invisible realms, the tangible and intangible, by two distinct methods. First, He brought some things into being out of nothing by His own will—light, earth, fire, water, angels, and darkness. These elements, fundamental to all creation, exist because God willed them into being (Hebrews 11:3). Second, He fashioned other creatures from the elements He had already made: animals from the earth, creatures of the sea from the water, and mankind from the dust of the ground. This creative process reveals not only God’s omnipotence but also His wisdom and care in crafting a world fit for human life.

The Benefits of Creation: Leading Us to God

Creation, beloved, exists not to add to God’s glory, for His glory is infinite and perfect. Rather, creation benefits us, His creatures, for it serves as the foundation of Christian education. By observing the world around us, we come to know the existence of the Creator. Creation is the first revelation of God to mankind, even before the Holy Scriptures. It speaks to us of His power, wisdom, and goodness.

Moreover, creation provides for our needs, both physical and spiritual. The food we eat sustains our bodies, while the beauty and order of the world nourish our souls. Even the sacramental life of the Church is rooted in creation, as the bread and wine become the Body and Blood of Christ, feeding us unto eternal life.

The Character of God: Holiness, Power, and Wisdom

Through His creation, God reveals His character. He is holy, almighty, eternal, wise, and creative. His authority is unmatched, for He commands and it is done. His holiness is reflected in the purity and goodness of all that He has made. His wisdom is seen in the order and harmony of the universe, and His power is evident in the sheer act of bringing all things into being.

The Days of Creation: A Divine Work in Three Forms

Finally, let us contemplate the manner in which God created the world. There are three ways by which God brought forth creation. First, there is the silent creation—the elements of flesh, darkness, angels, and the heavens were created in silence, without the need for speech. Second, there is the creation by word—God spoke, and light appeared, days were established, and the foundations of the earth were set. Lastly, there is the active creation—only in the case of man did God not only speak but also work, fashioning man with His own hands from the dust of the earth.

In all these things, beloved, we see the mercy and goodness of our God. May we always give thanks to Him for the gift of creation, for the intercession of the Holy Virgin Mary, the saints, the righteous, and the martyrs, and for the hope of inheriting His eternal glory. Let us live in holiness, as creatures made in His image, reflecting His goodness in all that we do, and praising Him for the wondrous works He has done.

Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3364 | date:2024-09-18T23:40:44 ---


--- id:3365 | date:2024-09-18T23:43:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Holy #Eucharist 

Brethren in the Lord, who stand steadfast in the unwavering Orthodox faith, grace unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Today we will be learning about the holy Eucharist, which stands as the pinnacle of our redemption and the very lifeblood of the Church.

✍ The Incarnation: The Prologue to the Eucharist

Before we venture into the holy of holies, let us lay a foundation by reflecting upon the Incarnation, which is the cornerstone of all Christian doctrine. In the fullness of time, God, in His inscrutable wisdom, willed to be united with man. "The Word became flesh and dwelt among us" (John 1:14). This is not a mere visitation but an abiding union. The Godhead was pleased to dwell bodily (Colossians 2:9), and in this union, the natures of divinity and humanity are neither confounded nor separated but are united without mixture or change.

In this mystical union, Christ fully assumed our nature, bearing our griefs, carrying our sorrows, yet without sin. As Saint Cyril rightly proclaimed, the nature that needed salvation was not passed over. Thus, the unblemished Lamb, perfect God and perfect Man, presented Himself as the only sacrifice capable of redeeming our fallen state.

✍ The Eucharist: The Continuation of Incarnation

The Eucharist, dear faithful, is not separate from this grand narrative; it is the perpetuation of the Incarnation. Just as the divine nature did not obliterate the human in Christ, so the essence of bread and wine is not destroyed when consecrated as the Body and Blood. Here, the Church in her wisdom teaches us that in this Holy Sacrament, there is a mystical but real transformation, akin to the Incarnation itself.

As the Lord Jesus, at His Last Supper, did not speak in parables when He said, "This is my body... This is my blood" (Matthew 26:26-28), we take Him at His divine word, acknowledging a mystery that cannot be fathomed by the human mind but is apprehended by faith.

✍ The Eucharist: The Apex of Theology

In the Eucharist, we find the sum and summit of all theological truth. It is the tangible expression of God's love, the assurance of His promise, the fulfillment of the covenant. The Eucharist stands as a foretaste of the eschatological feast, where the Church militant and the Church triumphant are united in the worship of the Lamb.

This Sacrament is not a mere remembrance but an anamnesis, a making present of the one sacrifice of Calvary. In the Divine Liturgy, we are lifted above time and space, and the events of our redemption are made present to us, that we might partake of the fruits of the Tree of Life which is Christ Himself.

✍ The Eucharist: The Medicine of Immortality

Saint Ignatius of Antioch called the Eucharist the "medicine of immortality," and rightly so. For as much as the body requires bread for sustenance, so too does the soul require the Body of Christ for eternal life. In this Holy Communion, we are united to Christ and through Him to one another, forming one body, of which He is the head.

To partake of the Eucharist unworthily is to eat and drink judgment upon oneself (1 Corinthians 11:29). Hence, the Church, as a loving mother, calls her children to approach with a pure heart, having confessed and repented, that they might be made partakers of divine nature (2 Peter 1:4).

(Continues)👇🏾

--- id:3366 | date:2024-09-18T23:45:02 ---
✍ Conclusion: The Call to Union with Christ

The Eucharist calls us to a life of holiness and union with Christ. It is not an end in itself but the means to our sanctification and salvation. To commune is to abide in Christ and to have Christ abide in us. Here, the faithful are invited to partake of the divine banquet, to enter into the joy of their Master, and to be transformed into the image of the One who gave Himself up for us all.

Let us, therefore, draw near with faith and with an ardent desire to be united with Christ, to be healed by His touch, and to be sanctified by His life-giving Body and Blood. May this Holy Sacrament be for us a pledge of the world to come and a haven of salvation in this present age.

In the words of our beloved Saint John Chrysostom, "O taste and see that the Lord is good" (Psalm 34:8), and let us partake of this banquet with the angels, making earth

 join with heaven, in the unending hymn of praise.

Through the prayers of our Holy Fathers, Lord Jesus Christ our God, have mercy on us. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:3368 | date:2024-09-20T02:51:02 ---


--- id:3371 | date:2024-09-20T02:58:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About our Lady the Virgin #Mary: “All Generations Will Call Me #Blessed” Luke 1:48

In the heart of the Christian faith, a singular statement made by the Virgin Mary in Luke 1:48 holds tremendous theological, spiritual, and existential importance: “All generations will call me blessed.” This verse, part of her song of praise known as the Magnificat, is more than a simple prophecy. It is a proclamation of the divine mystery of God's work in the world, embodied through Mary, and it reverberates through the centuries in the life of the Church. To understand the depth of this verse is to grasp the broader context of how the Church honors Mary, her unique role in salvation history, and the inspiration of the Holy Spirit in this divine recognition.

Praise That Transcends Human Reason

First and foremost, the praise offered to the Virgin Mary is not merely a matter of human initiative. It is not simply an intellectual recognition or the result of scholarly study. Rather, as St. Paul writes in Romans 8:4, it is impossible to truly live or act in the will of God without the guidance of the Holy Spirit. This is the foundational truth for understanding the reverence given to Mary throughout the ages. The honor bestowed upon her is rooted in the divine work of the Holy Spirit, which transcends the limits of human intellect or comprehension. Without the Holy Spirit’s grace, it would be impossible for the Church—or for any individual—to properly acknowledge her role or offer true praise.

Thus, any attempt to honor Mary without recognizing the work of the Holy Spirit would fall short. This explains why those who clamor for Mary's intercession, without comprehending this divine mystery, fail to grasp the true nature of her praise. They lack the understanding that comes through the Spirit. As the text states, "they do not understand the work of the Holy Spirit that is beyond the mind and that they are not children of God." This reveals that to honor Mary rightly is to participate in the very life of God, through the guidance of the Spirit.

Testimonies of Divine Praise: Gabriel and Elizabeth

The Scriptures themselves bear witness to this divine orchestration of Mary's praise. The Holy Spirit moves through both the angelic and human realms to reveal Mary’s blessedness. First, we see the testimony of the Archangel Gabriel, who is sent from God with the express purpose of announcing her grace. In Luke 1:28, Gabriel proclaims her purity and the favor bestowed upon her: “Hail, full of grace, the Lord is with you!” The angel’s words are not mere pleasantries; they are a heavenly pronouncement of her blessed state, confirming that the praise of Mary originates in heaven, from the very throne of God.

Equally important is the testimony of St. Elizabeth, who, filled with the Holy Spirit, echoes this divine revelation. When she greets Mary, her unborn child—John the Baptist—leaps in her womb, and Elizabeth, moved by the Spirit, proclaims: “Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!” (Luke 1:42). This spontaneous, Spirit-led praise from Elizabeth affirms the divine source of Mary’s blessedness. Even the unborn John the Baptist, in his mother’s womb, participates in this recognition, leaping for joy in the presence of the Incarnate Word and His holy mother. The leaping of the unborn child and the praise of Elizabeth are, therefore, more evidence that the praise of Mary is initiated by God, through His Spirit, not merely by human initiative.

A Universal and Timeless Blessedness

Mary’s statement, “All generations will call me blessed,” (Luke 1:48) speaks not only to her role in her immediate context but also to the universal and timeless nature of her blessedness. The text interprets this as a prophetic declaration, extending her honor across all peoples and times—"the generation of Shem, the generation of Yapheth, and the generation of Ham." This reflects the Church's understanding that Mary's role transcends ethnic, cultural, and temporal boundaries.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3372 | date:2024-09-20T03:56:02 ---
Continued ☝️ 

Every generation, across the expanse of human history and geography, is called to recognize the singular grace that God has bestowed upon her.

This universal blessedness is not simply a matter of honor for its own sake. Rather, it is intricately tied to her role in the divine plan of salvation. As Father Giorgis Sasaksha explains, Mary’s grace was so profound that it lifted the curse of Eve. The unique gift given to Mary was never granted to any other descendant of Adam. Through her, the curse of the Fall was reversed, and the pathway to redemption was opened for all humanity. Thus, to call Mary blessed is not merely to praise her as an individual but to recognize the cosmic significance of her role in God’s redemptive plan.

The Consequences of Failing to Honor Mary

Just as praising Mary is a sign of being led by the Holy Spirit and being a child of God, the failure to honor her carries significant spiritual consequences. As the text states, “Not thanking Our Lady is leaving the child of God.” To reject the honor due to Mary is to reject the very will of God, for it is God who has bestowed grace and honor upon her. This is rooted in the words of Christ Himself, who declared, “Whoever welcomes you welcomes me” (Matthew 10:40). To accept and honor Mary is to accept and honor Christ, for the grace given to her flows directly from Him.

The text draws a powerful analogy from the story of Moses and the Israelites in the Book of Exodus. Just as the Israelites believed in God and in Moses as God's servant, so too must Christians believe in God and in the honor He has given to Mary. This belief does not equate to worshipping Mary, just as the Israelites did not worship Moses. Rather, it is an acknowledgment of God’s work through His chosen servant. Therefore, honoring Mary is not a form of idolatry but a recognition of the grace of God at work in her life and through her for the salvation of the world.

The Incomprehensibility of Mary's Praise

The final reflection draws from the writings of the Church Fathers, who express the overwhelming magnitude of Mary’s blessedness. St. Ephraim, in his love for the Virgin Mary, wished that his praises of her could be as abundant as the stars in the sky or the sands of the earth. Such hyperbolic language illustrates the vastness of her grace, which, as the text states, even the angels and the saints cannot fully comprehend. If heavenly beings and righteous martyrs struggle to offer adequate praise to Mary, how much more do we, in our earthly frailty, fall short? Yet, it is precisely in this inadequacy that the grace of the Holy Spirit works, allowing even the simplest of praises to rise to heaven as a true offering of thanksgiving.

Conclusion

In conclusion, the verse from Luke 1:48, “All generations will call me blessed,” serves as both a prophecy and a divine command. Through the work of the Holy Spirit, Mary is rightly honored as the most blessed among women, chosen to bear the Savior of the world. The testimonies of Gabriel, Elizabeth, and even the unborn John the Baptist bear witness to the divine origin of her praise. To honor her is to participate in the work of God, and to neglect her honor is to separate oneself from the fullness of the faith. May we, like St. Ephraim, strive to offer her praise that is as numerous as the stars, recognizing that, in doing so, we are led by the Spirit and drawn closer to Christ Himself.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:3378 | date:2024-09-23T23:55:08 ---


--- id:3379 | date:2024-09-24T00:00:16 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Repentance: The Turning Back to God 

Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ, let us gather our hearts and minds to reflect on the sacred path of redemption. The journey out of evil and into the grace of God is not simply a turning away from what is wicked but a striving toward what is good, holy, and life-giving. This is the journey to which we are all called, and in this calling, we must heed the wise counsel that has been handed down through the saints and prophets. Our actions, our desires, and our very being must be transformed, and this transformation begins with the taming of the senses, the practice of virtue, continual prayer, and sincere repentance.

Controlling the Senses: The Gateway to the Soul

The senses are the windows through which the world enters our hearts. If we do not control them, they will control us, drawing us into the depths of sin by inflaming our lusts and desires. As St. Jared teaches, we must be vigilant. It is not enough to simply resist sin; we must prevent its very seed from taking root in our hearts. Our eyes must be guarded so that they do not behold evil, our tongues must be restrained from speaking wickedness, and our ears must be shielded from hearing what is corrupt.

This vigilance over the senses is essential because the eyes, ears, and tongue are the entry points for temptation. If we allow our senses to feast on evil, even in small measures, we are nurturing the growth of sin within us. Our eyes are easily drawn to the vanities of this world, yet the scriptures remind us that we must fix our gaze upon heaven. Our ears are prone to gossip and slander, but we must choose to listen to the Word of God. And our tongues, which can be swift to anger or pride, must instead become instruments of blessing. Only by mastering the senses can we avoid being dragged into the snares of the evil one.

Doing What is Good: Fleeing from Evil is Not Enough

To truly turn from the path of sin, it is not enough to merely avoid what is wicked; we must actively pursue what is good. The prophet David, in his psalms, calls us to "flee from evil and do good" (Psalm 33:14). This echoes throughout the Scriptures and is central to the Christian life. It is not a passive avoidance of sin but an active, intentional pursuit of righteousness.

St. Paul, the apostle, exhorts us to understand that while all things may be permissible, not all things are beneficial (1 Corinthians 6:12). Here, we are reminded that the Christian life is not about finding the bare minimum of what we can get away with but about striving for what is best for our soul's salvation. The true Christian seeks not only to avoid sin but to embrace virtue, to cultivate love, kindness, patience, and humility. In this way, we are not merely avoiding evil; we are actively building up the Kingdom of God within us and around us.

Asking God in Prayer: The Lifeline of the Soul

Prayer is the lifeline of the Christian soul. Without it, we are like ships adrift on a stormy sea, tossed by every wind of temptation and desire. As the prophet David cries out, "May your mercy be upon us, O Lord, as we trust in you" (Psalm 33:22), so must we continually call upon God for His mercy and guidance. We cannot hope to walk the narrow path of righteousness through our own strength. It is God who sustains us, who gives us the grace to turn away from evil and to embrace what is good.

Prayer must be the constant posture of our hearts, not just in moments of need, but in all seasons of life. It is through prayer that we learn to trust in God's providence and mercy, and it is through prayer that we are given the strength to resist the temptations that so easily ensnare us. When we approach God in humility, acknowledging our weakness, He is faithful to lift us up and lead us in the way of repentance.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3380 | date:2024-09-24T00:03:02 ---
About leaving the pth of the wick folks will be attending 

Repentance is not merely a single act, but a continual return to God, a daily turning away from sin and a reorientation of our hearts toward His will. As the prophet Ezekiel reminds us, "If a sinner turns from his sins and does righteous things, he will save his life" (Ezekiel 18:27-32). In these words, we find hope: no matter how far we have fallen, the door to repentance remains open. But we must act swiftly, for as St. Peter warns, "The day of the Lord will come like a thief" (2 Peter 3:9-10). We are given this life as a time for repentance, a time to turn back to God before it is too late.

Repentance requires more than regret for our sins; it requires a complete transformation of our lives. To repent is to change direction, to abandon the evil ways that once enslaved us and to walk in the light of God's truth. This process is not easy, for it requires humility, perseverance, and the grace of God. Yet, as St. John Afework so wisely said, "To fall and get up is Adamic, not to get up after falling is diabolical." It is in our nature to fall, but we must never remain in our sin. To lie prostrate in sin is to submit to the will of the devil, but to rise in repentance is to reclaim the image of God that dwells within us.

God's Patience: A Call to Act Now

We are reminded by the apostle Peter that God is patient with us, not wanting anyone to perish but for all to come to repentance (2 Peter 3:9). However, this patience is not to be taken for granted. The time for repentance is now. The day of the Lord will come, and we know not the hour. Therefore, we must make every day, every moment, an opportunity to turn back to God. Each breath we take is a gift of His mercy, a chance to repent and to live as He has called us to live.

We must not delay, for delay is the weapon of the enemy. The devil whispers that there is always tomorrow, that there is always more time to repent. But the truth is, we do not know how much time we have. Therefore, let us act with urgency, making today the day of our salvation, the day we turn from sin and embrace the life that God has prepared for us.

Conclusion: The Path of Repentance and Redemption

Beloved, the way out of evil paths is a journey of discipline, of virtue, of prayer, and of repentance. It is a journey that requires us to control our senses, to flee from evil and pursue good, to ask for God's help in constant prayer, and to turn back to Him in true repentance. This is not a journey we take once, but a lifelong pilgrimage toward the Kingdom of Heaven.

Let us not be complacent in our spiritual lives, but let us strive with all our might to live according to the will of God. As the Scriptures teach us, our God is merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. He does not desire the death of the sinner but longs for us to turn back to Him and live. May we heed this call, and by His grace, walk the path of righteousness, leaving behind the snares of the evil one, and finding our rest in the loving arms of our Savior. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

©John's Repentance 
Follow our Telegram group and share it with your friends፦ https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:3384 | date:2024-09-27T02:36:24 ---


--- id:3385 | date:2024-09-27T02:37:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the annual feast of #Meskel: The finding of the #Cross 

Beloved, let us turn our hearts and minds to the contemplation of the cross— that symbol of paradox, weakness to some, but for us, the great power of God, as revealed in 1 Corinthians 1:18. The Feast of Meskel, celebrated in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, reminds us of the discovery of this life-giving cross and the mystery it holds for our salvation.

The Cross in the Angelic Realm: A Sign of Victory

The origins of the cross are not of this earth, but of the highest heavens. According to the ancient writings of St. Epiphanius, the creation of angels itself was tied to a heavenly battle. When the devil, full of arrogance, claimed that he had created the angels, a rebellion ensued. Many angels, seduced by his lie, followed him, while others—those who trusted in the true Creator—remained steadfast.

In the midst of this conflict, the angels turned to God, asking, “Is it your will that the devil overcomes us?” God's answer revealed the mystery of the cross: “It is not my will that you are defeated, but that you might know the power by which you will conquer.” At this, He carved the sign of the cross in light upon their wings and placed a cross of light in their hands. Empowered by this divine sign, the angels prevailed over Satan, as foretold in Revelation 12:7, showing us that from the very beginning, the cross was the power of God’s victory over evil.

The Cross as a Sign of Blessing: From Jacob to the Priests

The cross also has deep roots in the history of blessings. When Jacob, the patriarch, was dying, he blessed the sons of Joseph by laying his hands on them in the shape of a cross, as recorded in Genesis 48:11. This action foreshadowed the blessing of the cross that was to come in full through Christ. As Hebrews 11:22 recounts, the crossing of Jacob’s hands over Ephraim and Manasseh was a sacred symbol of the future grace that the cross would bestow.

Even today, the priests of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church extend their hands in the sign of the cross when they give blessings. This act reflects that the very foundation of the Church is the cross— a continuation of the blessings first seen in Jacob, extending from the Old Covenant to the New.

The Cross in the Old Testament: Judgment and Deliverance

In the Old Testament, the cross appears in many forms, often as a symbol of both judgment and deliverance. It was used as a method of execution, a sign of punishment for the worst crimes, as seen in Persia, and later adopted by the Romans. Deuteronomy 21:21-23 speaks of the punishment by hanging, but this too is infused with the mystery of the cross. The crucifixion of criminals, though seen as a curse, would one day become the means of our redemption when Christ himself would be unjustly hung on a tree.

But the cross was not only for punishment; it was also a symbol of God’s deliverance. Moses’ rod, which parted the Red Sea, was itself a prefiguration of the cross. With that rod, Moses:

- Parted the sea, just as Christ opened the way for our salvation.

- Defeated the enemies of God’s people, just as the cross defeats Satan and his hosts.

- Brought manna from heaven and water from the rock, foreshadowing the Eucharist, the true body and blood of Christ, and the living water of salvation that pours from His side.

Thus, in Moses’ rod, we see the power of the cross at work, pointing to the ultimate sacrifice of Christ, which would drown our sins and bring us into the baptismal waters of new life.

The Cross in the New Testament: The Fulfillment of Salvation

When Christ came into the world, born of the Holy Virgin Mary, He fulfilled the promise made to Adam. In His incarnation, He took on the weakness of our human nature, and by His crucifixion, He offered us salvation. The cross of Christ was not just an instrument of death, but the means by which He reconciled all things:

Man with God, restoring our broken relationship.

Angels with man, for now the angels minister to us through the mystery of salvation.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3386 | date:2024-09-27T02:39:02 ---
Continued ☝️ 

Soul with body, for through the cross, we are sanctified in both body and soul.

People with nations, as Christ broke down the dividing wall of hostility, making peace between Jew and Gentile, and uniting all in His body (Ephesians 2:16).

The cross is not just a sign; it is the medicine of life. As Psalm 73:12 tells us, "God is a king before the world, and He has made a remedy in the midst of the earth." The remedy is the cross, which carried the true healer, Christ, as described in John 19:17.

The Discovery of the Cross: Queen Eleni and the Feast of Meskel

The Feast of Meskel, or the "Finding of the Cross," celebrates a monumental event in Christian history. Queen Eleni, the pious mother of Emperor Constantine, embarked on a journey to discover the True Cross upon which our Lord was crucified. Arriving in Jerusalem, she was guided by an elderly man named Kyrakos, who advised her to pray and burn incense so that the smoke would lead her to the buried cross. Following his counsel, she witnessed a miraculous sign: the smoke rose to the heavens and then descended to the exact spot where the cross lay hidden.

After much labor and prayer, Queen Eleni uncovered three crosses—the one on which Christ had been crucified and the two crosses of the thieves. To determine which was the True Cross, she touched each one to a sick person, and only the cross of Christ brought healing, restored the lame, and gave sight to the blind.

The significance of this discovery is celebrated annually in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church with the Demera ceremony. “Demera,” meaning to gather or pile up, symbolizes the collective unity of the faithful, as they gather to burn incense and pile up wood to commemorate the miraculous finding of the cross.

Conclusion: The Cross—A Source of Eternal Blessing

The cross has traveled a long journey through the angelic realms, the blessings of the patriarchs, the deliverance of Moses, and the salvific act of Christ. It is not merely a symbol of death or punishment, but the means by which the entire cosmos is restored and healed.

As we celebrate the Feast of Meskel, let us take to heart the lessons of Queen Eleni, whose piety and faith led to the recovery of the True Cross. Let us pray that, like her, we may be guided to the foot of the cross, where our Savior waits to heal us, to give us life, and to lead us to eternal victory. May the feast be for us not just a remembrance, but a deepening of our devotion to the cross, the power of God for us who are being saved.

May the Lord make this holy day a blessing to all of us, and may the cross of Christ guide us in our daily lives, leading us ever closer to His kingdom. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3392 | date:2024-09-30T22:01:23 ---


--- id:3393 | date:2024-09-30T22:03:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the annual feast of #Gishen #Mariam - the arrival of the #cross to Ethiopia 

The celebration of the annual feast of Gishen Mariam, centered around the arrival of a portion of the True Cross to Ethiopia, is a profound and richly significant event in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church (EOTC). This sacred occasion, deeply tied to the historical, spiritual, and cultural identity of the Ethiopian Orthodox faithful, holds an unmatched reverence, both for its connection to the Cross of Christ and its embodiment of Ethiopia's sacred covenant with God. Let us delve deeply into the meaning of this event and the grace it holds for those who partake in it.

The Sacred Narrative: The Arrival of the True Cross

The story begins during the reign of Emperor Dawit II, a devout king of Ethiopia, who sought something far greater than material riches for his people. Rather than requesting gold, jewels, or treasures, the emperor wrote to the ruler of Egypt, asking for the most sacred of relics—the Cross of Christ itself, along with the relics of saints. This request, reflecting a heart tuned to the eternal and holy rather than the fleeting wealth of the earth, shows the profound spiritual character of the Ethiopian kingdom at that time.

In response, Egypt sent the Cross on which our Lord's right hand rested, along with the bones of saints and other sacred relics. This sacred procession journeyed through Egypt toward Ethiopia, and Emperor Dawit, accompanied by his army and people, received them with deep reverence. It was more than a physical journey; it was a spiritual procession that symbolized the deep union between Ethiopia and the holy relics of the Christian faith.

The Cross Finds Its Home on the Gishen Plateau

Upon their return to Ethiopia, the relics were initially placed in the city of Debre Berhan. However, this was not to be their final resting place. Emperor Dawit’s successor, Emperor Zara Yaqob, received repeated divine messages, a vision from the Spirit of God, revealing that the Cross was destined to rest elsewhere—a place specially prepared by God. In a recurring message, the voice of God commanded, "Place the Cross in a crossy place."

Seeking to fulfill the divine will, the emperor and his court searched diligently for the location destined to hold the holy relics. After exploring other mountains such as Nagesha, Erer, and Atacha, Emperor Zara Yaqob entered into a seven-day period of intense fasting and prayer. At the conclusion of this period, a pillar of divine light appeared before him, guiding him toward the mountain of Gishen. The light stopped at a location shaped in the form of a cross, and there the king knew that he had found the place God had chosen for the Cross to rest.

Gishen Mariam: The Second Jerusalem

The plateau of Gishen Mariam, also known as Debre Kerbe, was thus consecrated as the final resting place of this precious relic of the Cross. The mountain, resembling the form of a cross, became a spiritual beacon for all Ethiopian Christians, and it was crowned with divine honor. Over time, Gishen Mariam came to be called the “Second Jerusalem.” Just as the city of Jerusalem holds the Cross where Christ was crucified, so too does Gishen Mariam hold a portion of that same Cross, sanctifying the land of Ethiopia with the promise of salvation.

The miracles and divine graces associated with Gishen Mariam are innumerable. A sea upon the mountain, which never dries up, and a venerable olive tree serve as living reminders of the presence of God and His continued work among the faithful. Moreover, the presence of the Cross itself, along with other holy relics, calls to mind the passion and suffering of Christ, drawing pilgrims into a deep reflection on the mystery of salvation.

The Promise and Blessing of Gishen Mariam

The spiritual promise associated with Gishen Mariam is vast and deeply rooted in the history of Ethiopian Orthodoxy. The Virgin Mary, who stood beneath the Cross of Christ on Calvary, is believed to have a unique connection to this sacred site.

Continues👇🏾

--- id:3394 | date:2024-09-30T22:06:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

Just as she bore witness to Christ’s suffering and received from His lips the promise of motherhood to all of humanity, so too does she stand at Gishen Mariam as a figure of hope, suffering, and grace. The faithful who make pilgrimage to this place are assured of her intercession, particularly in times of suffering, for she is inseparably linked to the Cross.

It is said that all who make the journey to Gishen Mariam to pray, to bless the Cross, to receive the sacraments of baptism and the Eucharist, and to offer their hearts in worship, will find divine favor. Earthly blessings for the body and heavenly blessings for the soul are promised to all who set foot upon this holy ground. For Ethiopian Orthodox Christians, the act of visiting Gishen Mariam is akin to making a pilgrimage to Jerusalem itself, for the blessings received there are believed to be just as powerful.

The Feast of Gishen Mariam: A Day of Divine Encounter

Each year on Meskerem 21, more than half a million Orthodox Christians ascend the heights of Gishen to celebrate this holy feast. Pilgrims bring offerings, prayers, and devotion to the Holy Virgin Mary and the Cross, hoping to receive divine blessings. The feast commemorates not only the arrival of the Cross in Ethiopia but also the profound covenant between God and His people. For the faithful, the pilgrimage is a moment of profound spiritual renewal, an opportunity to partake in the mystery of God’s salvation, and a reaffirmation of their commitment to the Christian faith.

The preparation for this feast begins days in advance, as pilgrims gather from all corners of the country, beginning their journey as early as Meskerem 16. During this period, many seek to renew their souls by receiving the Eucharist—the very Body and Blood of Christ—and through holy matrimony, symbolizing the sacred covenant between God and His people.

The Covenant of the Cross

The celebration of the Cross at Gishen Mariam is not merely an act of historical remembrance, but a living testament to Ethiopia’s covenant with God. This covenant is exemplified in the Cross itself, which Christ invites all His followers to carry: “If anyone loves me, let him take up his cross and follow me.” The faithful who make the journey to Gishen Mariam recognize that to carry the cross, as Christ commanded, is to embrace both suffering and salvation, both death and resurrection.

For those who cannot undertake the arduous physical journey, modern developments have made it easier to reach Gishen Mariam by vehicle. A road now exists, allowing even the elderly and infirm to visit the mountain and receive the blessings it offers. However, the true pilgrimage is one of the heart and soul, a journey toward the mystery of God’s love revealed in the Cross.

Conclusion: The Glory of the Cross in Ethiopia

The story of the Cross of Christ arriving in Ethiopia, and its final resting place on the Gishen Plateau, reflects the profound spiritual heritage of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. The annual feast of Gishen Mariam is a time when the faithful remember this heritage, renew their covenant with God, and receive His grace through the intercession of the Virgin Mary and the sanctity of the Cross. The blessings of this holy place, bestowed on all who visit it, serve as a reminder of the eternal promises of God, offered freely to those who seek Him in faith and love.

May we all, through the intercession of the Holy Virgin and the power of the Cross, find both earthly and heavenly blessings, and may we always remember that to carry the Cross is to walk the path of Christ—one that leads to eternal life.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3395 | date:2024-09-30T22:09:02 ---
👉 Bellow is a spiritual hymn in Amharic about today 's feast
👇🏾👇🏾👇🏾🎧🎧🎧

--- id:3396 | date:2024-09-30T22:10:02 ---


--- id:3399 | date:2024-10-04T03:26:40 ---


--- id:3400 | date:2024-10-04T03:27:07 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Radiance of #Saint #George: Martyrdom and Light

In the vast tapestry of Christian saints and martyrs, St. George stands as an emblem of unwavering faith, luminous courage, and an ethereal embodiment of Christ's light. His tale, while ancient, brings forth lessons that are eternally valuable, ever relevant, and strikingly profound.

Born Amidst Piety and Purity

Hailing from Cappadocia, a region known for its deeply spiritual ethos, St. George was born in 280 A.D. to a lineage of nobles who were devout Christians. From a tender age, he was bathed in the teachings of Christ, absorbing the essence of love, sacrifice, and redemption.

The Soldier of Christ in a Material World

Choosing a life in the Roman army was not merely a temporal decision for young George. It was his means to weave spiritual principles within worldly duties. As he climbed ranks, his integrity and virtue were undeniable. Rumors suggest his friendship with the future Emperor Constantine, but the true heart of St. George’s legend lies not in alliances but in his audacious proclamation of faith.

Dark Times and a Light that Never Dimmed

The Eastern Empire's heartbeat, Nicomedia, became the epicenter of an unprecedented assault on Christianity. Emperor Diocletian, in 303 A.D., issued an edict that sought to obliterate Christian existence. Sacred places of worship were razed, scriptures set aflame, and believers met with unspeakable horrors.

Yet, amidst this suffocating darkness, St. George emerged as a beacon of divine light. With heavenly audacity, he tore the very edict that condemned his kin and faith. This act was not of rebellion, but of celestial affirmation.

Divine Dialogues with Diocletian

Emperor Diocletian, both fascinated and threatened by George’s undying spirit, sought to lure him with promises of grandeur. But how can earthly titles tempt a soul that had tasted divine love? Threats of torture were also in vain. For every wound inflicted upon his mortal coil, George’s spirit soared higher.

Chastity and Celestial Companionship

One poignant episode is of Diocletian sending a woman of unparalleled beauty to lead George astray. However, George, with eyes only for the Divine, became a conduit of grace. The very woman sent to seduce him became enraptured by Christ's love, boldly professing her newfound faith and joining the choir of martyrs.

Martyrdom and the Resounding Echo of Faith

St. George’s trials, both physical and spiritual, were manifold. Tortured in ways that defy human imagination, he was raised by Christ Himself, only to be tested again. Yet, every test left onlookers astounded, leading many to embrace Christianity. The Emperor's vexation reached a crescendo, and he ordered a poison so potent it was deemed undefiable. Yet, the Saint, with merely the sign of the cross, rendered it harmless.

Diocletian, unable to comprehend such grace, granted George a final audience. Offered a last chance to forsake Christ, George’s response was resounding. He chose martyrdom over betrayal. His beheading was not a mere execution; it was his final act of love for Christ.

Legacy: A Beacon for Eternity

Word of George's martyrdom spread like wildfire. The Christian diaspora began venerating him, constructing places of worship in his name. His feast on April 23rd became a sacred day of remembrance. With time, legends like his conquest of the dragon emerged, symbolizing the victory of good over insurmountable evil.

Saint George remains an eternal symbol of hope, courage, and unyielding faith. In his story, we are reminded that, faced with adversities, true faith never wavers. In the midst of darkness, it is the light of Christ, as witnessed in the life of St. George, that will guide us home.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3404 | date:2024-10-08T06:19:13 ---


--- id:3405 | date:2024-10-08T06:22:46 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Tsomë_Tsigée 

Beloved brethren in Christ, in this sacred season known to us as Wereha Tsigée in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, we commemorate the migration of the Holy Family—the Blessed Virgin Mary, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and the righteous Joseph—into Egypt and Ethiopia. This event, memorialized in the fast of Tsomë Tsigée, is a journey marked by divine guidance, trials, and heavenly interventions, all culminating in the profound revelation of God’s care for His chosen vessels. Let us now embark on a spiritual reflection of this journey, rich in meaning and deep in mystery, a story that resonates through time as a testament to God’s enduring love for humanity.

The Divine Command to Flee

The Holy Family’s migration began with a divine command from an angel, saying to Joseph: "Take the child and his mother and flee to Egypt" (Matthew 2:13). This simple yet urgent directive set in motion a journey that would stretch across nations and echo through centuries. Our Lady, the Blessed Virgin Mary, carrying in her arms the hope of the world—our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ—embarked on this perilous journey with the righteous Joseph, who obediently followed the angel’s command, and Salome, Our Lady’s aunt. Their departure from their homeland was not merely a geographic movement but a spiritual exodus, carrying within them the Light of the World to lands beyond their own.

Though commanded to journey to Egypt, the Holy Family passed through many regions, encountering trials that revealed both the frailty of human nature and the overwhelming grace of divine providence. Among their first stops was the forest of Geraral, a place that would become significant as a shelter and a temporary refuge. Yet, even in these secluded places, the enemies of Christ and His Holy Mother sought them out, driven by the jealousy and hatred of King Herod.

Yosa’s Effort and His Punishment

As the Holy Family journeyed, a striking episode unfolded involving Yosa, the son of Joseph, who had remained at his father’s house. Herod, in his fury, sent soldiers to seek out the Holy Family. Yosa, learning of Herod’s murderous intent, rushed to warn his relatives. But as he traveled, Satan, disguised as a man, attempted to dissuade him from his mission, sowing doubt and confusion. Yet, like the righteous of old, Yosa remained undeterred, pushing forward to reunite with his father and the Holy Family.

When Yosa finally arrived, he brought grievous news to Joseph and the Blessed Virgin: Herod’s massacre of the innocents in Bethlehem had begun, and no child was spared. Upon hearing this news, the Holy Virgin wept bitterly, clutching the infant Jesus to her breast, her heart pierced with the knowledge of such suffering. Yosa’s words were like a sharp blow to her maternal heart, for she realized the danger that still loomed over her beloved Son.

In this moment, our Lord Jesus Christ, though still a child, demonstrated His divine authority and profound wisdom. Though Yosa’s intentions were noble, he had startled and distressed the Holy Mother. Christ, in His justice, punished Yosa’s body for this slight offense, yet in His mercy, He restored Yosa’s soul to life. This act of divine retribution was not meant as condemnation but as a reminder that those who are beloved of God must endure discipline. As Scripture says, “My son, do not despise the Lord’s discipline, and do not resent His rebuke, because the Lord disciplines those He loves, as a father the son He delights in” (Proverbs 3:11-12). Like Moses and Aaron, who were close friends of God but were chastised for their momentary lapses, Yosa too was disciplined for a small offense, yet his soul was preserved.

The Encounter with the Robbers: Titos and Dacres

The Holy Family’s journey was not without encounters with human evil, a reflection of the sinfulness that Christ came to redeem. Two robbers, known as Titos and Dacres, notorious for their extortion and violence, pursued the Holy Family through the wilderness.

--- id:3406 | date:2024-10-08T06:22:47 ---
Their intent was to steal whatever they could from the travelers, driven by the base instincts of greed and malice. Yet, even among the wicked, there was a glimmer of grace.

Titos, moved by some divine stirring, saw something extraordinary in the Holy Family. He perceived in the child Jesus a prophetic presence, and against the will of his companion Dacres, he chose to return what they had stolen from Joseph. In this moment, Titos showed a spark of repentance, while Dacres, hardened in his ways, scoffed at such compassion. The Virgin Mary, filled with both fear and motherly concern, wept bitterly, fearing for the safety of her divine Son. But Christ, in His infinite knowledge and sovereignty, reassured her with words that revealed His divine mission: “Do not be afraid, mother. When I am crucified on Calvary, these two will be crucified beside me—one on My right and one on My left.”

Indeed, the prophetic word was fulfilled. Titos, later known as the repentant thief crucified at Christ’s right hand, became the first to enter paradise through faith in the crucified Lord. Christ’s promise to Titos, “Today, you will be with Me in paradise” (Luke 23:43), was a fulfillment of the mercy shown to him on this fateful journey, when he first encountered the Savior of the world as a child.

Divine Protection and Escape

Throughout their journey, the Holy Family experienced divine protection at every turn. After resting in the forest of Geraral for forty days, they were discovered by a hunter who informed King Herod of their whereabouts. Herod, driven by a satanic zeal to destroy the Christ child, sent his soldiers to capture them. Yet, in a manner reminiscent of the ancient stories of Israel’s deliverance, the Lord intervened. An angel of God descended, leading the Holy Family through the wilderness in ways unknown to Herod’s soldiers, leaving their enemies confused and empty-handed.

The Visit to Tiberias and the Intervention of the Angel

The Holy Family’s journey did not end with their escape from Herod’s soldiers. They next traveled to Tiberias, where they sought refuge with a relative of the Blessed Virgin, a king named Cephas. In his house, they found a temporary shelter, yet the threat of Herod’s persecution loomed large. Herod, through treachery and deceit, attempted to bribe Cephas into betraying the Holy Family. But the king, faithful to his kinship with the Blessed Virgin, refused to give them up.

The Lord’s protection did not cease. An angel appeared once again to Our Lady, instructing her to flee from Tiberias to Lebanon, where they would find safety until the divine plan was fulfilled. The king, loyal and compassionate, accompanied the Holy Family partway on their journey, ensuring their safety before returning to his kingdom.

The Meaning of Their Migration: A Symbol of Divine Providence

This migration, my dear brethren, was not just a historical event. It was a pilgrimage of salvation, a divine act of God’s protection and guidance, a foretaste of the ultimate redemption that Christ would bring to the world through His life, death, and resurrection. The Holy Family’s trials and triumphs along the way remind us of the suffering and deliverance that all faithful souls must endure in this world, trusting in God’s providence.

Just as the Holy Family was led by the divine hand through the wilderness of persecution and trial, so too are we led by God through the wilderness of this life. Christ, who was once carried by His mother in flight from Herod, now carries us in His grace through the trials we face, promising us, as He promised the good thief, that those who believe in Him shall find rest in His eternal kingdom.

Conclusion: A Call to Faith and Commemoration

In this season of Wereha Tsigée, as we fast and pray, let us remember the Holy Family’s journey not merely as an ancient story, but as a living testament of faith, courage, and divine intervention.

--- id:3407 | date:2024-10-08T06:22:47 ---
Let us draw inspiration from the Blessed Virgin’s unwavering faith, from Joseph’s steadfast obedience, and from the miraculous interventions of Christ, even as a child, who guided and protected His earthly parents. And may we, like Titos, the repentant thief, seize the moments of grace that God gives us, repenting of our sins and placing our trust in the crucified and risen Lord.

May this sacred time renew our hearts, strengthen our faith, and deepen our love for Christ, who in His infancy fled persecution, and in His divinity reigns forever as the King of kings and Lord of lords. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3412 | date:2024-10-11T01:48:02 ---


--- id:3413 | date:2024-10-11T01:49:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The #Conception and #Birth of Our Lady, the Blessed Virgin #Mary

Beloved brethren in Christ, let us draw near with reverence and awe as we contemplate the most glorious and wondrous event of Our Lady’s conception and birth—a mystery so profound that its significance reverberates through the ages, touching both heaven and earth. It is an occasion we celebrate not only with joy, but with deep reflection, for in her birth, the dawn of salvation began to break upon the world. Our Lady, the Holy Virgin Mary, is no mere woman, but the chosen vessel through whom the Word became flesh. Her sanctity, purity, and role in the redemption of humankind are unparalleled in all creation. She is, as the Scriptures and the Holy Fathers have proclaimed, the mother of God, the Theotokos.

The Prophetic Promise of Her Coming

The Virgin Mary’s birth was foretold from the dawn of time. Her appearance in history was not a mere accident, but part of God’s eternal plan for the salvation of His people. Before the heavens were stretched out and before the foundations of the earth were laid, God had ordained that through her, His Son would enter the world as the Savior of all. The prophet Isaiah, inspired by the Holy Spirit, declared, "A shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse; from his roots a Branch will bear fruit" (Isaiah 11:1). This prophecy was not only about Christ, but also about His mother, the pure shoot of Jesse’s line.

Our Lady's lineage was divinely appointed. On her father’s side, she descended from the royal house of King David, and on her mother’s side, from the priestly line of Aaron. Through this holy lineage, both the royal and priestly offices were united in her, symbolizing the confluence of God’s kingship and priesthood in the person of Jesus Christ, whom she would bear.

The Miraculous Conception: A Gift from God

The story of her conception begins with her parents, Joachim and Anna, a devout and God-fearing couple who longed for a child. Like the righteous women before her—Sarah, Hannah, and Elizabeth—Anna was barren, and both she and Joachim grew old without offspring. Their hearts were heavy with grief, for they had no heir to continue their family line. Yet, in their barrenness, they never wavered in their faith, continually presenting their supplications before the Lord.

One day, after a long period of fasting and prayer, the angel of the Lord appeared to them with a message of hope. To Joachim, the angel said, “The Lord has heard your prayers, and your wife Anna shall conceive and bear a daughter, who will be the joy of the whole earth.” To Anna, a vision was granted, in which she saw a radiant dove descending from heaven and resting upon her head, a symbol of the Holy Spirit’s work in her womb. She rejoiced, knowing that the child she would bear would be no ordinary child, but one who would bring forth the light of the world.

The Birth of the Virgin Mary: A Joy for All Creation

On the seventh day of August, in the year of 5485, before the Year of Mercy, the Holy Virgin Mary was conceived, and after the appointed time, she was born to Joachim and Anna in great joy. Her birth was not just the fulfillment of her parents’ prayers, but the dawn of the hope of the world. She was born not only for her parents but for all humanity, for through her, the salvation of Adam’s race would come. The Holy Fathers have often reflected that her birth marked the end of the long night of sin and the beginning of the new day of grace.

As the holy Scriptures declare, "If the Lord of hosts had not left us a seed, we would have become like Sodom, we would have been made like Gomorrah" (Isaiah 1:9). The seed spoken of here is none other than the Virgin Mary, for through her, the curse of sin and death that plagued humanity since the fall of Adam would be undone.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3414 | date:2024-10-11T01:52:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

Her birth was accompanied by wondrous signs. The earth, which had long groaned under the weight of sin, rejoiced, and the heavens proclaimed her glory. Angels descended from on high, and the fragrance of paradise filled the air. The old world passed away, and with her birth, the new creation began to unfold.

The Purity and Holiness of Our Lady

From the moment of her conception, Our Lady was preserved from the stain of original sin. She was chosen to be the vessel of the Incarnation, and thus, she was made pure, spotless, and without blemish. Her holiness was not merely external but touched every aspect of her being—her thoughts, her words, and her actions. She was wholly consecrated to God, filled with the grace of the Holy Spirit, and untouched by the corruption of the world.

The Holy Virgin Mary’s purity is of three kinds: in her life, in her heart, and in her actions. From her youth, she lived in the temple, dedicated to the service of God. She was a model of humility, chastity, and devotion, a living sanctuary where the Spirit of God dwelled. Her life was one of perfect obedience to the will of God, and even before she knew the fullness of her calling, she submitted herself entirely to His providence.

As Saint Luke records, when the angel Gabriel announced to her that she would conceive and bear the Son of God, she responded, "Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word" (Luke 1:38). In this response, we see the depth of her faith and her unwavering trust in God’s plan.

The Prophetic Signs of Her Birth

The birth of Our Lady was not only anticipated by her parents but foretold by the prophets and sages of old. The vision that Anna saw of the white dove resting upon her head was a sign of her daughter’s future role as the Mother of God. The dove, symbolizing the Holy Spirit, prefigured the overshadowing of the Spirit that would later occur at the Annunciation, when Mary conceived the Word of God in her womb.

Furthermore, the wise King Solomon, guided by divine inspiration, foresaw her birth and her role in salvation history. In his wisdom, he declared, "Who is this that appears like the dawn, fair as the moon, bright as the sun, majestic as the stars in procession?" (Song of Solomon 6:10). This prophetic vision pointed to the Virgin Mary, whose purity and glory would shine brighter than the sun and whose birth would herald the coming of the true Light of the world, Christ our Lord.

The Virgin Mary: The New Eve and the Ark of Salvation

In the person of the Virgin Mary, we see the fulfillment of the ancient promise made to Eve in the Garden of Eden. Just as Eve was the mother of all the living, so too is Mary the new Eve, the mother of all who live in Christ. Where Eve brought sin and death into the world through her disobedience, Mary brings life and salvation through her obedience. She is the new Ark of the Covenant, the dwelling place of God’s glory, for in her womb, she carried the very Word of God, made flesh for our salvation.

Her birth was a sign that God’s promise to redeem His people was being fulfilled. In her, the hopes of the patriarchs, the prophecies of the prophets, and the prayers of the righteous were all answered. She is the bridge between heaven and earth, the ladder by which the Son of God descended to save mankind.

Conclusion: Our Lady, the Hope of All Humanity

Beloved, as we commemorate the birth of the Holy Virgin Mary, let us give thanks to God for the great gift He has given us in her. Her birth is the dawn of our salvation, the beginning of the fulfillment of God’s plan to redeem the world. Through her, the Light of the world entered into the darkness, and through her, the curse of sin was lifted.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3415 | date:2024-10-11T01:54:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

Let us follow her example of faith, humility, and obedience, and let us always seek her intercession, for she is not only the Mother of God but the mother of all who believe in Christ. May her prayers protect us, may her example inspire us, and may her Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, grant us the grace to walk in the path of righteousness all the days of our lives.

To Him be the glory, honor, and worship, with the Father and the Holy Spirit, now and ever, and unto ages of ages. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3420 | date:2024-10-14T23:30:08 ---


--- id:3421 | date:2024-10-14T23:33:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About True #Prayer: A Pathway to Divine Mercy

Beloved brethren, faithful followers of the orthodox teachings, let us gather our hearts and minds to contemplate the profound mystery of true prayer—the sacred communion between the soul and its Creator. For what is prayer if not the earnest outpouring of a contrite heart, the humble admission of our unworthiness before the throne of grace?

When we invoke the word "mercy," we are not merely uttering a plea; we are confessing our repentance, expressing deep sorrow for our transgressions, humbling ourselves, and acknowledging the weight of our sins. In this supplication, we simultaneously testify to the infinite glory of God, recognizing that He alone holds the power to forgive and restore. Thus, when we pray, saying, "God, have mercy; Christ," it must emanate from a broken and contrite heart that fully admits its guilt and desperate need for divine compassion.

As the Psalmist David so eloquently declares, "The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise" (Psalm 51:17). Here, we see that the true offering God desires is not burnt offerings or ritualistic observances but a heart humbled by repentance. A heart that recognizes its failings and seeks earnestly to return to the embrace of the Almighty.

Our Lord Jesus Christ, in His boundless wisdom, provided us with a poignant illustration of the proper posture of prayer through the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector. He addressed those "who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others" (Luke 18:9). Two men ascended to the temple to pray: the Pharisee and the tax collector. The Pharisee stood confidently, praying within himself, "God, I thank you that I am not like other men—extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week; I give tithes of all that I possess" (Luke 18:11-12).

This self-righteous man boasted of his deeds, elevating himself above others, his heart void of humility. In stark contrast, the tax collector stood at a distance, unwilling even to lift his eyes toward heaven. Beating his breast in deep remorse, he pleaded, "God, be merciful to me, a sinner!" (Luke 18:13). Our Lord affirmed that this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. "For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted" (Luke 18:14).

From this divine teaching, we glean that the prayer, "God, have mercy on me, a sinner," is the epitome of penitential prayer. It encapsulates the humility and brokenness of heart that God honors. It is not the eloquence of words but the sincerity of the heart that moves the heart of God.

In our sacred assemblies, we bear witness to the power of such heartfelt prayers. On Sundays and during our annual celebrations, when we commence the day's program after the Holy Mass, testimonies resound from the lips of pilgrims and worshippers alike: "My prayer has been received; my request has been heard; thank God." They exhort us, "May the God who hears them listen to your prayers." Women lift their voices in jubilant praise, while men clap their hands in joyous affirmation.

These testimonies affirm that our prayers are not mere echoes lost in the void nor are our times of devotion exercises in futility. No, dear brethren, they are precious dialogues with the Almighty, who inclines His ear to the cries of His people. As our church teaches, our prayers are heard, and our petitions fulfilled when we approach God with hearts purified from malice and bodies cleansed from abuses.

Therefore, it is incumbent upon us to rid our hearts of revenge and malice, to cleanse ourselves from the impurities that hinder our communion with God. We are admonished to reconcile with those from whom we are estranged, to forgive those who have wronged us, and to restore what we may have unjustly taken. In doing so, we align ourselves with the heart of God, who desires mercy over sacrifice and reconciliation over ritual.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3422 | date:2024-10-14T23:36:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

Our Lord Jesus further reinforces this truth, declaring, "If you abide in Me, and My words abide in you, you will ask what you desire, and it shall be done for you" (John 15:7). This abiding is not a passive state but an active, continuous dwelling in His presence and obedience to His commandments. The Apostle John echoes this sentiment: "And whatever we ask we receive from Him, because we keep His commandments and do those things that are pleasing in His sight" (1 John 3:22).

From these sacred scriptures, we understand that obedience to God's word is paramount for our prayers to be effective. Disobedience erects a barrier between us and God, hindering our prayers from reaching His throne. As the prophet Isaiah lamented, "But your iniquities have separated you from your God; and your sins have hidden His face from you so that He will not hear" (Isaiah 59:2).

Disobedience is an offense before God, a transgression that obstructs the channel of communication with Him. It is not that His arm is too short to save, nor His ear too dull to hear, but our sins create a chasm that only repentance can bridge. Therefore, if we persist in rebellion, our prayers become like clanging cymbals—noise without substance.

To become heirs of His glorious name, we must wash ourselves in the waters of repentance, standing before Him in purity and holiness. Let us heed the exhortation of the Apostle Paul: "I desire therefore that the men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and doubting" (1 Timothy 2:8). In purity of heart and steadfast faith, our prayers ascend as sweet incense before the Lord.

In summation, if we obey the word of God, He will indeed hear our prayers. But if we remain rebellious, harboring sin and unforgiveness, our prayers will falter. Let us not allow disobedience to hinder our communion with the Almighty. Instead, let us embrace a life of repentance, humility, and obedience, so that our prayers may be powerful and effective.

Beloved, let us draw near to God with sincere hearts, cleansed and consecrated, confident that He who promised is faithful. Let us pray without ceasing, with hearts broken over our sin yet hopeful in His mercy. And as we do, may we experience the fullness of His grace, becoming living testimonies of His unfailing love.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3433 | date:2024-10-20T00:03:37 ---


--- id:3434 | date:2024-10-20T00:03:37 ---


--- id:3435 | date:2024-10-20T00:03:37 ---


--- id:3436 | date:2024-10-20T00:04:41 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Obstacles to #Repentance

 👉Question: My life has been polluted by sins and I wanted to repent. But I was very afraid of falling into the same sin again, so I thought before I repent, I should try to overcome the sin that challenges me. If I win, then I will repent and cleanse myself of the past. What do you advise me about this?

Answer: Among the ways of salvation that Satan fights against, there is no better than repentance, because repentance destroys all the edifices of sin that the enemy, the devil, has built to destroy the lives of Christians, making it not exist by God's grace. Because of this, he tries to prevent us from repentance, and even if we were to repent, he will never stop doing his best to prevent it from happening sooner than later. Among the obstacles to repentance that the enemy, the devil, uses to keep people in sin or prolong the time for repentance:

1. Creating obstacles: They can be sudden challenges or opportunities, but they disable us from repenting by creating obstacles.

2. To convince the sinner that he is better by comparing himself with those who have sinned more than him and that he does not need repentance, but holiness should not be compared to a sinful life.

3. Being guided by environmental influences due to the weakness of the flesh. Saint Paul said, "Do not be conformed to this world." Romans 12:2 A small fish swims in a stormy sea. A Christian should withstand such temptations and live a spiritual life.

4. Delay: The devil does not fight us directly to prevent us from repenting, but he delays us from repenting by suppressing various hidden temptations and reasons. One of the dangers of procrastination is changing the heart prepared for repentance and destroying the opportunity for repentance. If sin is not crushed immediately and continues, it will take root and become an addiction, and then it can destroy the regret and desire for repentance.

5. Despair:  Before we fall into sin, Satan makes us sin by thinking of God's goodness and forgiveness, and after we sin, he reminds us of God's judgment and cruelty and discourages us from repenting.

6. By making the repentant think that he is not a sinner, that he is justified by self-admiration.  A man cannot change what he thinks is good unless he believes that his own life is corrupted by sin. If there is no spiritual change in his life, he will not think about repentance. He does not repent, so he does not examine himself.

7. Not having a God-fearing heart: According to Saint Isaac, if there is no God-fearing, there is no repentance. Sometimes, some people take out "GOD-fearing" from their hearts in excuse of love. At this time, they become careless about their penitential life and fall into sin. Because of sin, they lose the love of God that leads them to repentance.

In general, it is not appropriate to live as a slave of sin or to fight without repenting but fighting with and winning the devil, falling and getting up in repentance. Joshua son of Sirak told his son that if he wanted to serve God, he should prepare himself for the challenges he would face. Satan is jealous of our spiritual work when it comes to our fasting and repentance. He fights to prevent us from accepting the value of our labor. He will prepare every trap so that we will fall. He tells us that you will not leave us until we surrender. But as St. Peter told us, "Your partner the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. Knowing that your brothers in the world have received all that suffering, resist him steadfastly in faith (1 Peter 5:89), we should remember this advice and fight, not give up or run away in fear."

In the work that a person does, while controlling his body and humbly contributing the good, he is given the repentance which he discards the evil work day by day with. "Not even heaven is clean before God, let alone a man who drinks sin like water." Job 15:15.

(Continues)👇

--- id:3437 | date:2024-10-20T00:09:03 ---
(Continued) 👆

Since it is impossible for a person to be free from sin, repentance is done in the morning and in the evening if needed, but it is not delayed so we don't accumulate sin. The righteousness or sin that a person does every day is written in God's record. If we repent for our sin to our father of confession and wash it with tears of repentance, it will be destroyed. Today, we give the pitty excuse that we are ashamed to tell the priest, but we don't know when we will be taken away. We will be taken away suddenly and may hear the word " go away from me" on judgment day. Because if we die while we are in sin and not repenting, we will suffer in the after life. Therefore, we must realize that living in sin while being subject to sin is a shame for the soul.

In addition to this, not only will we lose the death of our soul by not repenting, but even when we live on earth, our fasting and prayers will not be fruitful without repentance. Fasting or any spiritual service is a practice period where we try to get closer to God. Sin pushes us out of this life. Therefore, in order to get closer to God, one should quickly remove sin through repentance. During fasting, just as the body is forbidden from food, the soul is also forbidden from all earthly and worldly desires. For this we return to God through repentance; And God will return to us. "Behold, the hand of God is not shortened from saving, nor his ear deaf from hearing, but your iniquity has separated between you and your God, and your sin has hidden his face from you." (Isa 59:1:2) Therefore, food served on a beautiful and polished table will make me happy, fasting and prayer done with repentance and a clean and polished body will bring reward. "Return to me and I will return to you" (Mal 3:7), God called his people to repentance through his prophets. 

 (continues) 👇

--- id:3438 | date:2024-10-20T00:12:02 ---
(Continued)👆

To sum up, to live in sin is death and slavery. Sin takes away from us peace, rest, tranquility, understanding. It also causes stress. It keeps us away from the grace and fruits of the Holy Spirit.  It makes us vulnerable to worldly thoughts, actions, and lust of the flesh. It takes away from God's sonship, from the protection of the Trinity, from life, from love, from the goodness and virtues of God. Sin will also take us to eternal death. There are ups and downs in the journey of life. The crutch that help us stand up again is repentance. Repentance is like being born again or being regenerated every time. Anyone who commits sins every now and then adds diseases to old age. The Christianity of a person who does not repent is useless and his sins will be many. A person who repents and frequently examines himself for his soul with his confession father is like a healthy and peaceful person because he always asks a doctor for help.

So our questioner, thinking about running away from repentance and fighting sin is like making a plan to widen the door for sin or extending the date for repentance, so we recommend that this is not appropriate. Instead, as our Lord Jesus Christ told us, "if your burden is heavy, come to me", because he called us to help us from our burden, we must repent and fight to be freed from sin by taking down our burden continuously. God is our power to be able to do what we think we cannot do. It is said to draw near to God and he will draw near to you (Jas 4:8).  Thus, we should have our hopes in the faithful GOD and listen to his calling for our repentance. His unwavering words say "God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble" (James 4:6), so that no one falls into the grave of sin that he commits regularly and does not fall away from being the child of God, and that GOD's grace that is constantly given to him is not lacking, everyone should have a life of repentance. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3445 | date:2024-10-24T03:05:19 ---


--- id:3448 | date:2024-10-24T03:08:20 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About our father #Abune #Aregawi 

Oh beloved in Christ, children of the holy Orthodox Church, today we gather in spirit and truth to delve into the life of a great saint, Abune Aregawi, whose ascetic life and divine struggles transcend time and space, nourishing our souls and kindling the flame of divine love within our hearts.

Abune Aregawi, a spiritual luminary of the 5th century, was born in the imperial city of Rome, under the protective wings of his parents, Isaac, a king of noble stature, and Adhana, a queen of pious heart. His birth name was Zemikael, a name that foretold his celestial journey towards the heavenly kingdom.

From his youth, Zemikael exhibited an insatiable hunger for divine wisdom, dedicating himself to the study of the Holy Scriptures and the lives of the saints. At the tender age of 14, the world laid before him its earthly treasures and royal betrothals, yet his heart yearned not for temporal glory but for the eternal. He renounced the world and entered the sacred grounds of the Daunas monastery in Tsyre, where he was clothed in the angelic habit and embraced monastic life with fervor.

In the divine providence of God, Abba Pakoumis, the abbot of the monastery, discerned the heavenly calling upon Zemikael and ordained him a monk, setting him on the path of ascetic struggle and divine contemplation.

His zeal for Christ was contagious, and soon, seven of his kin, ignited by the same celestial fire, joined him in monastic life. Together, they embarked on a journey of ascetic labor, emulating the good shepherd who tends to his flock with unwavering care and love.

However, the news of Zemikael’s renunciation reached the ears of his mother, Queen Adhana, whose heart was pierced with both sorrow and awe. She journeyed to see her son, now Abune Aregawi, a name that signifies his spiritual ascent. Though he initially resisted her visit, her maternal plea struck a chord within him. She implored, "My son, what is the world that you despised in your childhood of use to me?” Overwhelmed by her faith, Abune Aregawi welcomed her into the monastic fold, placing her under the care of the holy nuns.

In due course, the call of the divine led Abune Aregawi and his brethren to the sacred lands of Ethiopia, a nation steadfast in faith and untainted by apostasy. Carried by the wings of Saint Michael the Archangel, they set foot in Axum, fulfilling the divine prophecy and enriching the spiritual tapestry of the Ethiopian Church.

Yet, the solitude of the desert called out to Abune Aregawi, urging him to seek the hermit’s life and immerse himself in uninterrupted contemplation. He parted ways with his brethren, each finding solace in solitary prayer and divine labor.

Abune Aregawi, guided by divine grace, reached the summit of Debre Damo, a sanctuary suspended between heaven and earth. Here, he battled the forces of darkness, his faith unwavering, his heart aflame with divine love. The devil, envious of his sanctity, sought to tempt him, yet Abune Aregawi, armed with the sword of faith, vanquished the foe, turning the beast into a vessel of divine ascent.

For years, he subsisted on heavenly manna, his body sustained by divine grace, his soul aflame with unceasing prayer. He became a beacon of sanctity, drawing thousands to the monastic life, guiding them on the path of salvation.

As his earthly sojourn neared its end, the Lord appeared to him, bestowing upon him the crown of righteousness and assuring him of his heavenly inheritance. Abune Aregawi, having fought the good fight, having kept the faith, entrusted his flock to worthy successors and entered into the joy of his Master.

Dear brethren in Christ, the life of Abune Aregawi stands as a testament to the transformative power of divine grace and the unfathomable depths of ascetic struggle. He renounced the world, yet gained the kingdom of heaven. He embraced solitude, yet became a father to thousands. He battled the forces of darkness, yet shone with the uncreated light.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:3452 | date:2024-10-24T20:52:35 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾

Let us, therefore, beseech his holy intercessions, that we too may be granted the strength to renounce the world, the courage to embrace the ascetic struggle, and the grace to attain the heavenly kingdom. May his life inspire us to seek the things above, to live in accordance with the Gospel, and to become partakers of the divine nature.

As we commemorate his holy memory, let us exclaim with joy, “O holy Abune Aregawi, pray to God for us, that He may save our souls!”

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3461 | date:2024-11-01T01:42:17 ---


--- id:3462 | date:2024-11-01T01:43:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the different things we can learn from #Saints 

Beloved faithful, let us draw near with awe to the lives of the saints, who are the holy beacons God has set before us, illuminating the path to His kingdom. These saints, chosen from among men and set apart by God’s grace, are living testaments to His wonders, His teachings, and His holiness, calling us to share in the same.

The Life of Holiness

The lives of the saints are not merely tales of human striving but sacred testimonies of God’s hand upon them, sanctifying and guiding them. In the Epistle to the Hebrews, St. Paul opens our eyes to the meaning of faith, a faith lived and proven through the struggles and triumphs of Abel, Enoch, Noah, and Abraham. As the Lord commanded, "Be holy as I am holy," so the saints respond with lives that echo His holiness. They are vessels filled with the Holy Spirit, walking in communion with God and bearing witness to His call for us to strive for purity.

The Meaning of True Religion

What is religion if not the reflection of divine truth upon the lives of the saints? Through them, we grasp the meaning of worship, the sanctity of our traditions, and the depth of our Orthodox Tewahedo faith. It was God’s purpose to reveal His divine teachings through holy men and women who were His mouthpieces and His witnesses. From Moses, who penned the Torah, to St. Luke, who chronicled the Acts of the Apostles, we see that to understand sacred scripture is to understand the lives and intentions of those inspired by God to write them. The saints teach us that religion is not a mere code of conduct but a lived experience, a direct connection with the divine through faith, obedience, and love.

The Works of God Through His Chosen

In the lives of the saints, we behold the marvelous works of God, whose hand guided them through trials, performed miracles, and showed forth His power. Whether it is Moses parting the Red Sea, Daniel in the lions' den, or Elijah commanding the skies to withhold rain, these are but shadows of God's enduring mercy and strength. Their lives are filled with God's wonders, for He has worked through them to reveal His divine will and to save His people from darkness. The prophet David rightly proclaims, "God is wonderful with His saints," for they are the recipients and bearers of His miracles and His mysteries.

Communion with the Saints

The saints dwell not in isolation but in eternal communion with the faithful. United in faith, we share in the same Spirit that connects us to the saints in heaven, to those on earth, and to the holy angels. In this sacred fellowship, we are members of one body—holy and undefiled. Enoch and Elijah, who were taken up in life, dwell as living witnesses to the divine, while our holy ancestors like Abune Gebre Menfes Kidus, Abune Tekle Haymanot, and St. George inspire us by their faithfulness. As St. Paul affirms, “You are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the family of God.” Thus, we are not strangers but heirs with them of the Kingdom, bound in love and prayer.

Models of Perseverance and Holiness

The saints stand as pillars of strength, models of perseverance in faith and holiness. Their lives teach us that holiness is achieved not by ease but through struggle, by overcoming temptation and enduring suffering. With unwavering faith, they faced every trial with patience, each one echoing David’s victory over Goliath. They remind us that God’s strength sustains us, just as He sustained them, and that we are to trust in His power to overcome the forces of evil.

In their struggles and their victories, we find encouragement to continue in our own journey. St. Paul instructs us, “Imitate me as I imitate Christ,” for in imitating the saints, we follow Christ Himself. To look to the saints, as St. Peter commands, is to see their grace and their virtues with the eyes of the heart, to recognize the divine strength within them, and to strive to live as they did.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3463 | date:2024-11-01T01:45:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

The Sacred Records and Secret Counsel of God

The saints are the keepers of God’s mysteries, those entrusted with His secrets and revelations. From Moses, who spoke to God face-to-face, to Abraham, to whom God disclosed His plans for Sodom, these chosen servants were given insights into the divine will. Their intimate relationship with God reveals that the Lord shares His heart with those who seek Him in purity and devotion. In them, we see how God’s mercy moves and how His judgment is tempered by His servants’ intercessions. Just as Moses interceded for Israel and Abraham pleaded for the righteous in Sodom, we learn that the saints’ prayers are powerful and effective. They teach us to rely on their intercession, for their closeness to God is a channel of grace for us all.

The Example of the Martyrs and Their Crown of Glory

The martyrs show us the ultimate path to holiness: the willing sacrifice of one’s life for the sake of Christ. They, who despised the world and endured bitter sufferings for the Kingdom, teach us that true discipleship is costly. Yet, as St. Ephraim reminds us, they gained a crown of eternal glory, showing us the reward of unwavering faith. Their perseverance inspires us, reminding us that the path of holiness is indeed a narrow way, yet one paved with God’s promises and leading to His presence.

A Final Exhortation

In the lives of the saints, we see the embodiment of the Gospel, the living example of the narrow path to salvation. Their lives are not distant legends but guiding lights, calling us to walk as they walked, to strive as they strove, and to trust as they trusted. By imitating their holiness, we draw nearer to Christ, who is the crown of their glory and our hope of salvation.

Let us cherish the saints as our heavenly family, honor their memory, and seek their intercession. May we learn from their examples and strive to live lives worthy of our calling, that we, too, might share in the promises of the Kingdom and stand among the blessed in the eternal presence of our God.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3466 | date:2024-11-07T03:13:18 ---


--- id:3467 | date:2024-11-07T03:15:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Mystery of the #Holy #Eucharist (#Communion)

What is the Holy Communion? 
What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion? 
Why is the sacrament called a mystery? 
Who is worthy of the Holy Communion? 
What preparation do we do before and after receiving the Holy Communion?

The sacrament of Holy Communion is one of the seven sacraments of the Orthodox Church. The term "Qurban" is an Arabic word meaning "blessing," "gift of money, knowledge, labor and time." In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.

In the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile Himself with mankind. This offering is Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. Thus, the sacrament means the perfect Body and Blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior.

It was Jesus Christ who founded the sacrament of Holy Communion on the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. Only his twelve disciples were with him when he established this great sacrement and mystery. He did not reveal it to all the people who were following him like he did with other sacrements. This is why the Holy Church shroudes it in veil and honor as she offers it to the faithful. 

The Holy Communion is called a mystery because of the transformation of bread into the flesh of God and wine into the blood of God, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. The priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat and prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread and wine by saying, "Aækote Barëkë Wokëdësë," the authority of the priest, the word of God, and the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread and wine into the flesh and blood of God, making it a mystery that is hidden from the unbeliever.

Before receiving the Holy Communion, one must believe without doubt in the change of the bread and wine into the flesh and blood of God, which is necessary for the healing of the stain and wound of sin and the source of eternal life. One must also repent from past sins, confess, return, and guard against future sins. There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion, and one should not stay away from the Holy Communion until the end of one's life.

After receiving the Holy Communion, one should take precautions, such as refraining from eating or drinking for a certain period, and contemplating on the spiritual benefit received from the sacrament. The Holy Communion is a great mystery and is the sacrament that is central to the Orthodox Church's teachings.

(Continues) 👇

--- id:3468 | date:2024-11-07T03:18:02 ---
(Continued) 👆

If those who receive the sacrament are married, they should abstain from meat for three days before receiving communion. This is not because sexual relationship is a sin or unclean but because it is a work of the flesh. We do this out of reverence for the Eucharist. 

One should confesses a known sin and say, "Forgive me for any unknown sins," and cleanse their heart of revenge and keep their body away from wrongdoing.

In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food or water, and wait until the food is removed from the stomach.
If a person has a nocturnal emission the night of, they should not receive communion on that day.

On the eve, one should take a bath and prepare clean clothes.

It is necessary to get to church before the services start. A person who comes in the middle of the Liturgy and has not properly consecrated themselves should not receive communion.

A woman should not receive communion during her menstrual period for up to seven days. Afterward, she should wash herself and receive communion. As she gets close to giving birth, she should not receive communion until the child is born and christened. She should wait until she has gains back her energy before she continues taking part of the Eucharist. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3471 | date:2024-11-07T21:00:01 ---
👉 About the preparation needed to partake of the #Holy #Communion 

👉🏾 Question፦ Beloved John's Repentance 
Please explain 
"If those who receive the sacrament are married, they should abstain from meat for three days before receiving communion. This is not because sexual relationship is a sin or unclean but because it is a work of the flesh. We do this out of reverence for the Eucharist. "
Is this a suggestion or requirement? Maybe the word meat is a typo? Also is this unique to the Ethiopian Church or the other sister churches as well? Meaning is this a traditional practice exclusively in the Ethiopian church or is this from the Holy Fathers....please excuse my ignorance.  Thank you

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child.

Your question touches upon a delicate and often misunderstood aspect of our faith—the preparation for receiving the Holy Eucharist. You are correct; the word "meat" appears to be a mistranslation or misunderstanding. The intended meaning is indeed sexual relations.

The early Church Fathers, including St. John Chrysostom and St. Clement of Alexandria, spoke of the importance of marital chastity, especially before receiving Communion. They emphasized that abstaining from sexual relations for a period before partaking was not because marital intimacy is sinful, but rather a way to elevate the soul and focus on spiritual communion with Christ. This practice invites us to set aside even the good things of this world, preparing ourselves fully to receive our Lord in the Eucharist.

This discipline is not unique to the Ethiopian Orthodox Church alone; it is shared by many Oriental Orthodox traditions and is rooted in the wisdom of the Holy Fathers. They remind us that "the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh" (Galatians 5:17), encouraging us to submit our bodies and desires to the work of the Spirit, in reverence and holy preparation.

Regarding whether this is an absolute requirement, it is a matter best discussed with a spiritual father who can provide personalized guidance. The Church, in her wisdom, provides this as a path to elevate our reverence, but how each of us embraces this may differ according to our journey and circumstances. Matters such as these require careful discernment and the counsel of a spiritual father, who can guide you on the most fitting path to prepare your heart and soul.

How might you approach your spiritual father to seek this guidance as you prepare for the holy Eucharist?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3479 | date:2024-11-08T18:44:50 ---
👉 About the #Sabbath in the EOTC.

👉🏾 Question፦ Hey, I hope you are doing well. I have questions about the day of worship in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. 

As a church that upholds all the commandments of God, and Old Testament traditions why do we not observe the day of worship on the Sabbath, which is Saturday? I could be wrong, but I learned that both Saturday and Sunday are considered Sabbath days in our church . However, I don’t see churches resting or recognizing the day of worship on Saturday; it’s mainly on Sunday. I find this confusing because God commanded us to worship on the Sabbath, which is Saturday.

Additionally, I read that Sunday worship originated from Emperor Constantine changing the Sabbath to Sunday. How is the Ethiopian Orthodox Church different in this regard? Even if we say it’s bc Jesus resurrection didn’t the disciples keep the day of the sabbath? 

I hope you can get back to me, and thank you so much for your time!

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, and may the grace of Our Lord be with you.  Your thoughtful questions demonstrate a yearning to understand the ancient paths of our faith. Let us delve into the sacred texts and traditions to illuminate this matter.

You are correct that the Lord commanded the Sabbath to be held sacred in the Old Testament (Exodus 20:8-11).  However, we must remember that with the coming of Christ, we are not merely under the Law, but under grace (Romans 6:14). 

The early Church, comprised of the Apostles and disciples who walked with Jesus, began to observe the first day of the week, Sunday, as the Lord's Day, in commemoration of His glorious Resurrection (John 20:1).  This shift did not negate the Sabbath; rather, it fulfilled its spiritual purpose in Christ.  

The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, in its ancient wisdom, upholds both the Sabbath and the Lord's Day. We observe the Sabbath on Saturday with prayers and scriptural readings, acknowledging its significance as a day of rest and reflection.  

However, we celebrate the Divine Liturgy, the Holy Eucharist, on Sunday, the Lord's Day, in joyous celebration of His victory over death.  This practice aligns with the teachings of the early Church Fathers and the traditions passed down through generations.

While some historical accounts attribute the prominence of Sunday worship to Emperor Constantine, it's crucial to remember that the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, in its isolation, maintained its apostolic traditions without Roman influence.  Our observance of Sunday as the primary day of liturgical celebration stems from our understanding of its significance in light of the Resurrection.

Your pursuit of understanding is commendable, my child.  Remember, the essence of our faith lies not merely in rigid adherence to specific days but in our heartfelt devotion to God.  May He continue to illuminate your path as you seek Him with sincerity and humility.  

If you have further questions, do not hesitate to ask.  May the blessings of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit be upon you. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3498 | date:2024-11-15T02:10:01 ---


--- id:3501 | date:2024-11-15T02:22:58 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 God appears on the #saints

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John Repentance page; We have sent you the following important lesson about the unity between Christ and the Church so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.

To speak of saints is to speak of God. Fire manifests itself in wood. The life of the saints is also a manifestation of God. Saint Paul said: "I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ lives in me. He explained to us that it is Christ who dwells in the saints. Galatians 2:20. In his message, Saint John said, "Hereby we know that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit." : 1st John 4:13. What Christ revealed in the Holy Word, "At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you..." (John 14:20). This is why the apostles and the holy fathers who succeeded them said, "I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen." Matthew 28:20. This is when he told them that he will always be with them forever. It is when St. Paul asserts this that he says, "Christ lives in me." The righteousness of the saints not only for their souls, but also for their bodies, and for their clothes, because the clothes of St. Paul used to heal the sick. Acts 9:11 When he lived on earth for three years and six months, for Christ We are not told that the shadow of his garment healed the sick, but it was said about St. Paul. Because it was Christ himself who stayed with Paul, the sick were healed by Christ. Paul, whom Christ honored and chose, caused the sick to be healed.
 
Our Lord, `Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do'' (John 14:12), the promise he made to the saints is bound to be fulfilled. It is not said that the creature is greater than the creator and performs more miracles. Instead, when Christ Jesus was revealed in the flesh, he indicated that he would perform the miracle that he had not performed in three years and six months, on the saints until the end of time. When our Lord said, "He who believes in me", he means he who believes that he is a divine being who has become a human being. This means that he who believes that He is one with his Father's nature- the Father and his life with the Holy Spirit , in character, existence, power, will, and divinity.  But not the one who just calls his holy name in vain. But the one who truly believes like this said, "He will do the works that I do (the miracles that I have done"). the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. Whosoever eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him." (John 6:53-56) It means that as fire melts iron, so I will live by grace.
 
Saint Paul, the light of the world, said, "Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ." 1st Cor 11:1 Why don't we say Christ directly? Is it difficult for him to say 'be like Christ?' it's not! Everything that Paul did was done by Christ, because Christ himself is in Paul. If it is said that the holy believers stood on one foot and prayed for seven years, it was Christ who did it through them, but a creature cannot do that by itself. But the Lord who dwells in the saints is omnipotent, so he also made them omnipotent. We also say with understanding, "O God of Abune Takle Haimat, glory and praise be to you," ; but we cannot say "Why did you do this on him?"  .

(Continued) 👇

--- id:3502 | date:2024-11-15T02:27:02 ---
God Reveals in Saints

(Part 2)

God said to Abraham 'And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:' (Genesis 12:2) is because praising Abraham is praising God who is in him. And to oppose Abraham is to oppose God, who dwells in him (and works in him). To praise the saints is to praise God, who is devoted to them (working in him). To praise Abraham is to praise oneself.

God said to Abraham 'And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:' (Genesis 12:2) is because praising Abraham is praising God who is in him. And to oppose Abraham is to oppose God, who dwells in him (and works in him). To praise the saints is to praise God, who is devoted to them (working in him). To praise Abraham is to praise oneself. Because someone praised or cursed Abraham, God did not directly say, "Blessed or cursed." When one praises Abraham, at the same moment he himself is praised. When he curses Abraham, he himself is cursed at the same moment. It is the living God whose word does not change. This is why it is said that praising the saints is praising God. Praising Abraham and praising the saints is only beneficial to oneself. Their God has praised and honored them more than they can, so our thanks are nothing to them. Abraham's God, who said, "I will bless those who bless you," is with them, so if we thank them, we are the ones who are thankful in return.
 
👉Why does Christ appear to the saints?
 
Because someone praised or cursed Abraham, God did not directly say, "Blessed or cursed." When one praises Abraham, at the same moment he himself is praised. When he curses Abraham, he himself is cursed at the same moment. It is the living God whose word does not change. This is why it is said that praising the saints is praising God. Praising Abraham and praising the saints is only beneficial to oneself. Their God has praised and honored them more than they can, so our thanks are nothing to them. Abraham's God, who said, "I will bless those who bless you," is with them, so if we thank them, we are the ones who are thankful in return.
 
👉Why does Christ appear to the saints?
 
God is the God of victory and defeat. His victory was revealed to Pharaoh and others. His defeat was revealed to the saints. Even though we are sinners, our Lord was overcome by our love and died on the cross for us. So, in short, why does Christ appear to the saints? We can see that in the following detailed points:
 
👉Because the love of the saints compels Him, He will reveal Himself to them:

 "He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself." to him.'' John 14:21:: He will be revealed to all the righteous who make the death of Christ their death, leave their warm and bright house and their possessions, wander on the wild cliffs, lick the dew, sleep on the rocks, and live a life of struggle. Also, even if some are called to live as a king/queen in the world, Christ will be revealed to all the martyrs who gave their bodies to the fire and the sword saying, "It is better for us to carry the cross of Christ's suffering." Our Loard has said "He who does not bear my cross and does not follow after me is not worthy of me, and whoever destroys his life will find it." So, thinking or believing that our Lord will not appear to the saints is like saying to the Loard that you are not faithful to your words, You are not close to those who need you .
 
(Continued) 👇

--- id:3503 | date:2024-11-15T02:30:49 ---
 God Reveals in Saints

(Part 3)

Christ will appear to the saints to reward them for their labor and to honor them as they honored him.

We will simply take a small example and comment on it. We even say "thank you" to the person who invited us to tea or the person who paid us a taxi! So, how much would the Almighty Christ thank the saints who suffered so much for the sake of His Holy name! How much he really respects them! Many verses can be given, but the problem lies in knowing Christ and hearing his words and believing, even if the verses are arranged, some people could not believe. If we really knew Christ and had his faith, we would not need a verse at all. Let us cite an example of how our holy fathers served and honored Christ throughout their lives. As written in the story of Abba Tekle Apostolo and Abba Samuel Zeldba, if these fathers of ours saw someone who had received Christ's flesh and blood vomiting, they would drink the vomit of that person for the glory of His flesh and blood. Abune Zena Markos also said that when a person who received the flesh was walking on the path of an obstacle, if his feet bled, they would lick the blood and express their love and respect for Christ in all such situations. Imagine what we feel and what we do when we see someone doing it, and look at the actions of the saints! What respect indeed! So, if we say "thank you" to the person who invited us to tea, how much Christ will respect the fathers who respect him like that!
 
The moment the saints did this, our Lord appeared to them and said, "As you have honored me in front of people, I will honor you in heaven and on earth." our Lord responded to the saints for their love and respect by saying;  those who pray beliving  in my divinity and your intercession, saying ' God of Abune TekleHaimanot, God of Samuel, God of Markus, have mercy on me'. I will then forgive and have mercy.

And their righteous work has survived for us and is giving us the value of body and soul. But this is a veiled gospel, except for those who are called and chosen.
 
👉He gave them a promise, so that we may know His goodness and forgiveness.

(to be continued)

Source ፦ ከገድላት አንደበት
                አዘጋጅ ገብረ ሥላሴ
                1997

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Please follow our Telegram group every day and share it with your friends: https://t.me/orthodoxQnAs

--- id:3505 | date:2024-11-15T21:00:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About our Lady the Virgin #Mary

👉 Question፦ Beloved John's Repentance 
Please explain I just watched a trailer for show called Mary and it shows, our Blessed Mother showing birth pang and she was screaming and  peopleI from chatolic Christina said  This movie is a misrepresentation of true Nativity. She did not experience it the  Pain  bcz she's Immaculate and preserved from any sins....
I just want ask what is our religion say about it and the birth...thank you

Answer፦ Peace to you, child. The question of the Theotokos' experience during the Nativity is one that has been contemplated by theologians and the faithful for centuries.  

The film depiction you describe likely reflects a specific theological viewpoint, but it does not represent the fullness of understanding within the Orthodox Christian tradition. 

We believe, as declared by the Holy Fathers and enshrined in our liturgical hymns, that the Virgin Mary gave birth miraculously, without pain or defilement, preserving her perpetual virginity.  This is part of the miracle of the Incarnation.  

However, we also acknowledge the reality of her human nature. The Orthodox Church does not teach that she was spared the natural anxieties and emotional experiences of a mother giving birth to the Savior of the world. 

Some Church Fathers, while upholding her sinlessness and miraculous delivery, have suggested that Mary experienced labor pains out of her profound empathy for humanity's suffering, which Christ came to heal.  This perspective highlights her compassionate heart and willingness to share in the human experience.

Ultimately, my child, the mysteries surrounding the Nativity surpass full human comprehension. We approach them with reverence and humility, drawing wisdom from Scripture and the teachings of the Church Fathers.  

It is essential to remember that our faith centers on the profound truth of God becoming man in the person of Jesus Christ, born of the Virgin Mary.  This miracle, in all its aspects, invites our awe, wonder, and unceasing thanksgiving.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3509 | date:2024-11-18T21:00:01 ---
👉👉👉 About #Love for God

👉🏾 Question፦ Hello beloved Families in Christ, I had a question 

Can we love God on our own or do we need God to love God?

Answer፦ Peace and blessings upon you, child. Your question delves into the very heart of our relationship with the Divine. 

The truth is, we are utterly incapable of loving God on our own.  Why? Because true love, agape in Greek, is not merely a human emotion but a divine gift, a fruit of the Holy Spirit working within us (Galatians 5:22).

Think of a sun-parched field. Can it yield a harvest on its own? No, it needs the life-giving water of rain, a gift from above.  Similarly, our hearts, withered by sin, are incapable of genuine love for God without His grace.  

As St. John Chrysostom beautifully wrote,  "It is not our love to God that should come first, but His love to us." For it is He who first loved us (1 John 4:19) while we were yet sinners (Romans 5:8). 

Therefore, we need God to love God.  We need His grace, poured out through the Holy Spirit, to soften our hearts, open our spiritual eyes, and ignite within us the flame of true love for Him. This love is not passive; it compels us to seek Him in prayer, study His word, partake in the sacraments, and strive to live according to His commandments.  

So, child, do not despair if you feel your love for God is weak or imperfect.  Instead, draw near to Him with humility and sincerity.  Ask for His grace, and He, in His boundless mercy, will surely grant it to you.  For He desires nothing more than our love, a love that is His own gift to us, returned to Him with joy and thanksgiving. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3525 | date:2024-11-20T20:51:46 ---


--- id:3526 | date:2024-11-20T20:51:46 ---


--- id:3527 | date:2024-11-20T20:51:46 ---


--- id:3528 | date:2024-11-20T20:52:08 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾A Homily on the Glorious Feast of St. #Michael the Archangel

Beloved brethren who strive to walk in the path of truth and righteousness, it is meet and right to give glory to God and to honor His mighty servants, among whom is the illustrious St. Michael the Archangel, whose feast fills our hearts with awe and reverence. Let us draw near to this sacred topic with diligence and humility, delving deeply into the marvels and mysteries surrounding this chief of angels, as transmitted by our fathers and confirmed through countless generations.

The Meaning of St. Michael’s Name

The very name of Michael is a revelation in itself, bearing testimony to the greatness of God. In the Hebrew tongue, his name is composed thus:

"Mi" – Menu (Who)

"Ka" – Keme (is like)

"El" – God

Together, his name resounds as a question and a proclamation: "Who is like God?" This name is not merely a title but a declaration of divine truth, a defiance of the arrogance of the fallen angels and a call for all creation to bow before the Almighty. It is a name that encapsulates his mission: to champion the glory of God and to defend His holy kingdom.

Michael, Chief of the Archangels

In the divine vision of St. John the Evangelist, it is revealed, "I saw the seven angels standing before God" (Revelation 8:2). Among these celestial beings, St. Michael was chosen by God to be their chief. His station is not a mere honor but a position of service, vigilance, and might. St. Michael stands as the protector of the faithful, the defender of the Church, and the adversary of Satan and his hosts.

The Miracles and Intercessions of St. Michael

The history of St. Michael is adorned with countless miracles, his interventions shining as stars in the spiritual firmament. Our forefathers, in their wisdom and devotion, preserved these accounts, witnessing his glory and power in their lives. From the writings of Saint Yared, Aba Giorgis of Gasecha, Saint John Chrysostom, Saint Eustathius of Antioch, and Saint Macarius, we learn of his manifold acts of guardianship and intercession.

The Institution of St. Michael’s Feast

The feast of St. Michael was established in the days of Patriarch Alexander of Alexandria (312–326). At that time, the city was home to a temple dedicated to the idol Saturn, a remnant of paganism. Inspired by divine wisdom, the patriarch sought to replace this abomination with the veneration of the true and living God. Through his teachings, he led the people to forsake idolatry. On the very day once devoted to Saturn, he consecrated the temple to St. Michael, transforming it into a church. Thus, the feast was established, and churches in honor of St. Michael began to spread, marking this day as a time of spiritual triumph.

The Miracle of Durataos and Tewablet

Among the many testimonies of St. Michael’s care, the story of Durataos and his wife, Tewablet, is especially remarkable. This pious couple faithfully celebrated the feast of St. Michael, even in times of prosperity. Yet, when adversity struck and they were impoverished, they lamented their inability to honor the archangel properly. In their desperation, Durataos sought to sell their remaining possessions. But St. Michael, ever vigilant, appeared to him in the guise of a great officer and instructed him to take a sheep, a fish, and wheat on credit, promising divine provision.

Upon returning home, Durataos found his household miraculously filled with blessings. Not only did this provision restore their ability to celebrate the feast, but it also allowed them to feed the hungry and glorify God abundantly. Later, when the archangel appeared again, he instructed Durataos to open the belly of the fish, where he discovered a dinar. With this, their debts were paid, and their needs met. St. Michael assured them, "I am Michael, the archangel who saved you from all your troubles. I will not cause you to be deprived of good things in this world."

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3529 | date:2024-11-20T20:52:08 ---
Continued ☝️ 

This act of kindness underscores the promise of God to those who trust in Him and honor His servants. The archangel’s words call us to live lives adorned with good deeds, sacrificial love, and almsgiving, for such acts prepare us for the eternal kingdom.

The Legacy and Countless Miracles of St. Michael

The miracles of St. Michael are countless, a testament to his role as the helper of the faithful and a reminder of the power of God working through His heavenly servants. His intercessions are a source of strength for the Church, his guardianship a shield against the forces of darkness, and his example a call to humility and steadfast devotion to the Almighty.

A Call to Honor St. Michael

As we celebrate the feast of this glorious archangel, let us remember the lessons of his life and deeds. Like Durataos and Tewablet, let us honor St. Michael with faith, even in times of trial, trusting in his intercession and the providence of God. Let us strive to emulate his unwavering loyalty to God, his humility, and his zeal for righteousness.

May the prayers of St. Michael the Archangel fortify us against all adversities, guide us on the path of salvation, and lead us to the eternal joy of God’s kingdom. To Him be glory, now and forevermore. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3546 | date:2024-11-26T23:32:05 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #EOTC #Church 

👉 Question: Blessed Day, I am seeking clarity on the Constitution of EOTC. Is there one for all or is there a different one for the West and Ethiopia? Do individual churches have the ability to amend the Constitution to adapt to their respective community? Where can one access the Constitution? Glory be to God.

Answer፦ Blessed day to you, beloved in Christ! Thank you for your question, and may the grace of God guide us as we seek understanding.

The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church (EOTC) does not operate under a "constitution" in the way that secular organizations do. Instead, the Church is governed by the Holy Scriptures, Apostolic Tradition, the Canons of the Church, and the writings of the Church Fathers. These form the unchanging foundation of our faith and practices, handed down from Christ through His Apostles and preserved by the Church throughout the centuries.

From your question, it seems you are asking whether individual churches or communities can adapt or amend these foundational principles to meet specific local needs. The answer is no. The EOTC's teachings, liturgical practices, and sacred traditions are universal and cannot be altered to suit particular communities or contexts. The Church is "one, holy, catholic, and apostolic," and this unity of faith and practice must remain unbroken.

However, the Church does have pastoral flexibility in addressing the practical needs of its faithful. For instance, local parishes, under the guidance of their bishop or priest, may provide tailored spiritual care, educational programs, or community support. This is not a change in the Church’s core teachings but a reflection of the Church's love and pastoral care for her children.

If you are asking where to access the guiding principles of the EOTC, I would encourage you to look into:

1. The Holy Scriptures: These are the foundation of all our teachings.

2. The Canons of the Church: These are the rules and guidelines established by the early councils and saints.

3. The Teachings of the Church Fathers: Such as those found in the writings of St. Dioscorus, St. Cyril, and others.

Your local Ethiopian Orthodox parish or diocese can also be a valuable resource. Clergy and learned laity are always ready to guide and instruct those who seek to deepen their understanding.

Let me ask you this: as you learn more about the unchanging faith of the Church, how will you allow these eternal truths to shape your spiritual journey and draw closer to the life of repentance and holiness in Christ?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3556 | date:2024-12-01T00:37:51 ---


--- id:3557 | date:2024-12-01T00:37:59 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Annual Feast of St. #Mary of Zion: A Profound Celebration

Beloved brethren who adhere to the Orthodox faith, let us delve into the deep spiritual significance of the annual Feast of St. Mary of Zion, celebrated on Hedär 21 (November 30 this year). This sacred observance is rooted in profound theological symbolism, historical events, and the enduring veneration of the Holy Virgin Mary, whose life and role as the Ark of Zion embody the divine mystery of our salvation.

The Ark of Zion as a Symbol of the Holy Virgin Mary

The Holy Virgin Mary is intimately linked to the Ark of Zion in both theology and devotion. As the Ark of the Covenant carried the divine presence, so too did the Virgin Mary bear the incarnate Word of God, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The term Zion, meaning "refuge," signifies the spiritual shelter offered to humanity through the Virgin Mary, who is described as the "refuge of God" and the "basis of our salvation." Psalm 86:5 declares, "And of Zion it will be said, 'This one and that one were born in her;
And the Most High Himself shall establish her.'” reflecting how Christ, the new Adam, entered the world through her womb to free humanity from the bondage of sin and death.

For nine months and five days, the Holy Virgin carried Christ within her, becoming the living throne of the Almighty. She is exalted by the Orthodox faithful as pure and holy, both in spirit and body, covered in "fine gold inside and outside," signifying her unblemished virginity and purity.

The Biblical Foreshadowing of the Ark of the Covenant

The Ark of Zion, crafted by Moses according to God’s command, held the two stone tablets inscribed with the Law (Deuteronomy 10:1-4). This Ark prefigured the Virgin Mary, whose womb carried the eternal Word of God. Just as the Ark was made of incorruptible wood, signifying purity, the Virgin Mary’s sinless nature made her worthy to bear the Incarnate Word. The gold that adorned the Ark symbolizes her inner and outer sanctity.

The Israelites carried the Ark into battle, and it brought them victory over their enemies. However, when they sinned, God allowed the Ark to be captured by the Philistines, who placed it in the temple of their god Dagon. The Ark's power was manifest when Dagon fell prostrate before it, his head and hands severed. Furthermore, plagues afflicted the Philistine cities until they returned the Ark. This narrative (1 Samuel 4:1-11) illustrates the Ark's sanctity and its divine power, foreshadowing the Virgin Mary's role as the bearer of God's presence.

Historical Significance and Ethiopian Tradition

The Ark of Zion is central to Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity. According to tradition, Menelik I, the son of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, brought the Ark to Ethiopia. It was housed in Axum, a city revered as a spiritual center. Over centuries, the Ark became a symbol of Ethiopian identity and faith, celebrated in song, procession, and liturgy.

The Feast of St. Mary of Zion on Hedär 21 commemorates pivotal events:

1. The Vision of Prophet Zechariah: He saw Zion as a source of divine seals, pointing to the sanctity of the Virgin Mary and her role in salvation.

2. Menelik I’s Entry into Axum: The Ark of Zion’s arrival in Ethiopia marked the divine favor bestowed upon the land.

3. The Role of Yodit Gudit: Even during times of turmoil, the Ark remained a symbol of continuity and peace.

4. The Temple of Abraha and Atsba: In the early 4th century, a grand temple was constructed in Axum, signifying the Ark’s centrality to worship. The consecration of this temple and the celebration of the Mass in Axum further solidified Hedär 21 as a holy day.

Theological Reflection and Spiritual Devotion

This feast reminds us of the Virgin Mary’s unparalleled role in God’s plan for humanity. She is the true Ark, the dwelling place of the divine. Her intercession continues to protect and guide the faithful. The Ark’s journey, its capture, and ultimate return symbolize the triumph of divine power over human sinfulness.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3558 | date:2024-12-01T00:39:19 ---
Continued ☝️ 

As we celebrate this sacred day, we are called to:

- Reflect on the purity and holiness of the Virgin Mary.
- Recognize her pivotal role as the bearer of the Incarnate Word.
- Seek her intercession as the refuge of humanity.
- Celebrate the historical and spiritual legacy of the Ark of Zion in the life of the Church.

Conclusion: A Call to Devotion

Let us join in the blessings of the Holy Virgin Mary, the Ark of Zion, who stands as the intercessor for all who seek her. With fervent prayer, we echo the words of the faithful: “Our Lady, her love, her intercessor, do not separate us!”

This Hedär 21, may our hearts be filled with gratitude and reverence for the Virgin Mary, whose feast reminds us of the unbroken link between the divine and human, the heavenly and earthly, and the eternal covenant of salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3562 | date:2024-12-02T20:30:56 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Forgiveness 

Question፦ I have a question about retaliating and responding to evil with good. 

If a person is responding to mean people with good. Does the person also have to tolerate mean people and stay close to them if they are friends or family? Or can the person create boundaries and distance while being nice whenever they see them? 

In the bible it says, “If someone slaps you on one cheek, turn to them the other also. “ (Luke 6:29). 

Is this saying if someone is hurting you to keep letting them do that or what is the meaning of this verse?

Thank you!

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child. It warms my heart that you seek clarity on these matters, for the path of righteousness is often shrouded in the mists of human misinterpretation. 

You ask a poignant question about the delicate balance between enduring evil and establishing boundaries.  

Indeed, our Lord instructed us to "turn the other cheek" (Luke 6:29). This, however, does not advocate for becoming a passive recipient of mistreatment. The essence of this teaching lies in breaking the cycle of retaliation, in responding to hatred with a love so profound that it disarms the aggressor.  

Turning the other cheek is an act of strength, not weakness. It is a conscious choice to meet aggression with unexpected grace, to extinguish the flames of anger with the living waters of forgiveness. 

However, forgiveness does not necessitate enduring further harm.  

As Proverbs 22:3 reminds us, "The prudent see danger and take refuge, but the simple keep going and suffer for it." Setting boundaries is not an act of vengeance but an act of self-preservation, allowing you to interact with others from a place of strength and love, rather than from a place of woundedness. 

Remember, my child, that even our Lord Jesus Christ, the epitome of love and forgiveness, withdrew from those who sought to harm Him when the time was not right. He was not obligated to subject Himself to their malice constantly.  

Therefore, creating distance from those who consistently inflict pain, even if they are family or friends, can be an act of wisdom. This distance allows you to pray for them, to love them from afar, and to create a space of peace within your own heart. 

Continue to act with kindness and grace, but do not mistake this for an obligation to endure ongoing harm. Seek the guidance of your spiritual father, who can offer personalized counsel based on your specific circumstances.

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3563 | date:2024-12-02T20:33:01 ---
👉👉👉 About #Reproduction

👉🏾 Question፦ Hello, I was wondering what the biblical purpose of having kids is? 

A couple of questions: 


1. Why do we bring kids to this world if the world is A) corrupted with sin and B) filled with suffering.

2) Should people give birth just because they want kids or because they want to continue their generation, so the kids can help them when they get old and other reasons related to fulfilling the parents. 

Or should it be because they want to show love to the kids and share the love of God with them? In other words, are there selfish reasons for having kids?  
Or is it a combination of all of these reasons? & What should the intention be when people think about having kids. 

Thank you.

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child, and may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Your questions delve into the heart of God's creation and His plan for us, His beloved children.  

Let us first acknowledge the reality you so keenly observe: our world, stained by the Fall, groans under the weight of sin and suffering. Yet, even in the face of this darkness, the light of God's love shines brightly through His greatest creation – humankind.

You ask about the purpose of bringing children into a world marred by such hardship.  Recall the words of the Psalmist,  "Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb is a reward" (Psalm 127:3). Children are not burdens, but blessings, gifts from the Almighty. 

To address your questions directly:

1. Why bring children into a broken world? We bring children into this world not to suffer, but to know and love God, to become vessels of His grace, and to participate in His work of redemption. As St. John Chrysostom teaches, "The greatest gift that can be given to children is not money or other material things, but the opportunity to grow in virtue." Through their lives, they have the potential to spread God's love and bring light into the darkness.

2. What is the right intention for having children? It is natural and understandable to desire children for the joy they bring, the continuation of family, and even for support in later years. However, our primary motivation should always be rooted in love – love for the child and love for God. We are called to be stewards of these precious souls, to nurture them in the Orthodox faith, and to guide them towards the Kingdom of Heaven.  

Remember the words of our Lord, "Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these" (Matthew 19:14).  

Therefore, my child, the decision to have children is a sacred one, not to be taken lightly. It requires prayerful discernment, seeking God’s will for your life and your family.  

Perhaps you might reflect on the lives of Saints Joachim and Anna, parents of the Theotokos. They were advanced in years and childless, yet they never lost faith in God's plan. Their unwavering devotion and persistent prayers were answered with the miraculous conception of the Virgin Mary, the very vessel of our salvation.

If you are considering parenthood, I urge you to seek guidance from your spiritual father. He can offer personalized counsel and prayers as you navigate this important decision.

May God guide you and grant you wisdom on your journey.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3572 | date:2024-12-09T22:55:45 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About our Lord and Savior #Jesus #Christ 

👉Question፦ Are there any written records detailing birth place of jesus in language of ge'ez or amharic that predates the year 325??

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child. It is good to see your thirst for knowledge continues. The question you pose regarding the birthplace of our Lord Jesus Christ is one that requires careful consideration. 

While the video you shared presents a compelling narrative, it is important to approach such claims with a discerning spirit guided by the wisdom of the Holy Scriptures and the unbroken tradition of the Orthodox Church. 

Firstly, the Gospels, written in Koine Greek, clearly identify Bethlehem in Judea as the birthplace of Jesus (Matthew 2:1, Luke 2:4-7). These texts predate the Council of Nicea (325 AD) by centuries and form the bedrock of our understanding of Christ's earthly life.

While Ge'ez and Amharic are sacred languages to us in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, they emerged as written languages later than the Gospels.  Therefore, it is unlikely to find texts in these languages predating the Gospels or the Council of Nicea that contradict the established birthplace of Jesus.

Furthermore, the Council of Nicea, while a pivotal moment in Church history, primarily addressed the divinity of Christ, not his birthplace. The Nicene Creed, formulated at the council, affirms Jesus's conception by the Holy Spirit and birth from the Virgin Mary, but it does not mention Ethiopia or alter the established narrative of His birth in Bethlehem.

The notion of a historical cover-up regarding Jesus's birthplace lacks support in canonical scriptures or early Church writings. The claim that Jesus was black, while reflecting a desire for representation and connection with Christ, should not overshadow the universality of his message and his identity as the savior of all humankind.

Remember, my child, our faith rests not on reinterpretations of history but on the firm foundation of the Holy Scriptures and the teachings passed down through generations of faithful believers. 

If you seek a deeper understanding of the historical Jesus and the development of the early Church, I encourage you to explore the writings of the Church Fathers and reputable scholarly resources. 

Let us continue to seek truth with open hearts and discerning minds, always remembering that our Lord Jesus Christ transcends any earthly boundaries or limitations. 

May God guide you on your journey of faith.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3573 | date:2024-12-09T22:57:01 ---
👉👉👉 About #inequality, #prayers and #beauty 

👉🏾 Question፦ Hello, 

A few questions that came up in conversation with some people that I wasn’t able to explain well if you can explain please 🙏🏾 

1. Why does suffering exist in this world and why are some people’s quality of life better than others. There are those that are homeless and struggling to eat and others living in luxury. 

2. Why do some people get what they want or pray for while others don’t. Two people can be praying about the same thing, for example their future partner, and one person gets what they wanted while the other person settles. 

3. Why didn’t God create everyone “attractive”. In the world, people perceive some as very attractive and others as average. Why couldn’t have God just created everyone “attractive” or is this a limitation in human perception.

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, child.  It warms this old monk's heart to hear from a soul grappling with such profound questions. Know that you are not alone in these ponderings. They have echoed through the chambers of human hearts since time immemorial. 

Let us delve into the wisdom of the Scriptures and the Holy Fathers to illuminate these mysteries.

1. The Mystery of Suffering and Inequality

Ah, the age-old question of suffering! Why does the good God, the loving Father, allow His children to experience pain, poverty, and want?  

Remember the words of our Lord, "In the world you will have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world." (John 16:33)

Suffering, my child, is a consequence of the Fall. When Adam and Eve partook of the forbidden fruit, they ushered sin and its companion, suffering, into God's perfect creation. Yet, we must not see suffering as solely punishment. The Holy Fathers, in their wisdom, teach us that suffering can also be a crucible, a fire that refines our souls and draws us closer to God.

Saint Isaac the Syrian writes, "Those who are smitten with the affliction of bodily illness or poverty, or persecution or slander, or any other temptation, and who endure it patiently, are crowned without any effort of their own."

As for the disparity between the rich and the poor, remember the parable of Lazarus and the Rich Man (Luke 16:19-31). Material wealth does not equate to spiritual richness. God sees not as man sees, for man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart." (1 Samuel 16:7)

2. The Enigma of Unanswered Prayers

The ways of God are higher than our ways, His thoughts than our thoughts. (Isaiah 55:9)  We pray for what we desire, yet sometimes those desires are not in alignment with God's perfect will for us. 

St. John Chrysostom reminds us, "You ask why that man is wealthy, and your neighbor poor. Why you are healthy while another is sick? I will tell you. It is so that by caring for each other you may be drawn together and show your love."

Perhaps, in His infinite wisdom, God withholds what we ask for to grant us something even greater -  humility, patience, or an even deeper understanding of His love. 

3. The Beauty of God's Creation

You touch upon a fascinating point about beauty.  Remember that God, in His infinite wisdom, created everything "very good." (Genesis 1:31)  True beauty, my child, emanates from within, from the soul illuminated by the Divine Light. 

The standards of physical attractiveness that the world imposes are fleeting and subjective. What one culture deems beautiful, another may not. Our focus should be on cultivating the beauty of the soul through prayer, fasting, and acts of love. As St. Gregory of Nyssa wisely stated, "The true beauty is the beauty of the soul, the beauty of a holy and virtuous life."

Remember, my child, these are just starting points on your spiritual journey. Continue to seek, to pray, and to delve into the Scriptures and the writings of the Holy Fathers. 

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3574 | date:2024-12-09T22:57:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

If you wish to explore these matters further, I would be happy to guide you. And remember, seeking the counsel of a spiritual father is always a blessed step on the path to salvation.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3578 | date:2024-12-10T20:31:15 ---
👉 About #hardship 

👉🏾 Question፦ A follow up question, 

For the answer of people struggling because we are in the fallen world. The ones that aren’t struggling as much as the other ones living in struggle, does God care more about them & their kids?

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, child. It is a natural human inclination to question the nature of God's love and how it manifests in a world seemingly filled with disparity.  The Holy Scripture reminds us that God's ways are higher than our ways, and His thoughts higher than our thoughts (Isaiah 55:8-9). 

The truth is, my child, God's love is not a finite resource that He dispenses more generously to some than others.  His love is an infinite wellspring, freely flowing to all His children.  

Remember the parable of the lost sheep?  The shepherd leaves his flock of ninety-nine to seek the one that has strayed (Matthew 18:12-14, Luke 15:4-7).  Does this mean he loves the lost sheep more?  No, it speaks to the boundless compassion and relentless pursuit He has for each soul. 

The struggles we face in this fallen world, though they may differ in form and intensity, are all trials that offer us opportunities for spiritual growth and drawing closer to God.  He is near to the brokenhearted (Psalm 34:18) and offers His strength to those who call upon Him (Isaiah 40:29).

Instead of comparing our lots and questioning His love, let us focus on cultivating gratitude for the blessings in our lives and offering a helping hand to our brothers and sisters facing hardship.  Remember the words of St. John Chrysostom, "If you cannot find Christ in the beggar at the church door, you will not find Him in the chalice." 

Do not lose heart, child. God sees your struggles, He hears your prayers, and He loves you unconditionally. Let us continue to seek His will in all things, for His ways lead to life everlasting.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3591 | date:2024-12-14T22:45:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Authenticity in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahido Faith

👉 Question፦ 

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child. Your heartfelt concerns echo the pain of many seeking the purest expression of faith. Know that it is the yearning for Truth that guides us towards the Divine Light. 

You are right to question and seek clarity. The history of the Church, like the life of a man, is fraught with periods of darkness and light. Let us unravel your concerns one by one, drawing wisdom from the Holy Scriptures and the Fathers.

You mentioned the discrepancy in the number of books between the King James Version and what you believe to be the original 81. You see, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, in accordance with ancient tradition, holds sacred the 81 books of the Holy Bible. This includes books deemed canonical by the early Church, such as the Book of Enoch, Jubilees, and others.  These books, my child, were not "removed" by any one authority, but rather their acceptance varied over time and place within Christendom. 

Now, regarding the influence of the Coptic Church on the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, it is true that for centuries, the Patriarch of Alexandria appointed the Metropolitan Archbishop of Ethiopia. This historical reality stemmed from the early connections between the Church of Alexandria and the evangelism of St. Frumentius, who brought Christianity to Ethiopia. However, it is crucial to remember that the Ethiopian Church maintained its own distinct liturgical practices, traditions, and theological nuances. 

You mentioned the possibility of "spies and even Muslims in disguise as bishops" being sent to Ethiopia. While such claims exist, they are often shrouded in historical debate and require careful, scholarly examination. It is vital to approach such sensitive matters with discernment and avoid spreading unsubstantiated claims. 

The brutal Italian occupation and the martyrdom of Abune Petros are dark chapters in our history. While the invaders sought to subjugate our faith, they could not extinguish the flame of Orthodoxy in the hearts of the faithful. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church emerged from this trial, her faith strengthened through the blood of her martyrs. 

Concerning the images you see, remember that icons are not idols. They are windows to heaven, reminding us of the saints and their holy lives. While some images may share stylistic similarities with Roman Catholic art, their meaning and purpose within the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church remain distinct. 

My child, it is understandable to grapple with these complexities. Yet, doubt must not cripple your faith.  Focus on your personal journey towards Christ, grounded in prayer, fasting, and acts of charity. Seek guidance from your spiritual father, who can offer personalized counsel. 

Remember the words of St. John Chrysostom, "Let us not be ashamed to confess our sins to Christ. For our fall is not dangerous, but our remaining in sin after our fall." 

May the Holy Spirit illuminate your path, and may the Virgin Mary, our intercessor, guide you towards the Kingdom of Heaven.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3598 | date:2024-12-19T20:31:29 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Prayers

Question፦ Hello, 

A quick question about prayer. 

I noticed that protests tend to ask others to pray for them often and pray with them out loud while holding their hand or just saying the prayer out loud like “ Heavenly Father, I pray that you bless this persons day, etc”. 

In the Orthodox faith, I noticed when we pray for others we tend to do it in privet. We don’t hold people’s hands or do it out loud often. 

Is there an issue with that prayer format. For example, if I’m at work and I hold my patients or their family’s hand and ask to pray for them would that be considered a non orthodox way of praying. 

Thank you.

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child, and may the blessings of our Lord be upon you. Your question reflects a discerning heart, sensitive to the nuances of prayer within our ancient faith.

You are correct that within the Orthodox tradition, prayer for others is often offered privately and silently. This stems from the understanding, echoing Christ's words in Matthew 6:6, that our Father "who sees in secret will reward you openly." We approach prayer with humility, not seeking outward validation but intimate communion with God.

However, this does not negate the power of communal or spoken prayer. The Scriptures themselves are replete with examples of collective supplication, and the Church has preserved beautiful liturgical prayers for the well-being of others.

Consider your example of praying with a patient. While holding their hand might not be our customary practice, if your heart is moved by genuine compassion and you feel led by the Spirit to offer comfort through prayer, do not stifle this impulse. You can say, "Would you like me to pray for you?" and then offer a heartfelt prayer, even a simple "Lord have mercy," uttered with sincerity, can be a source of solace.

Remember, my child, that God looks upon the heart.  As St. Isaac the Syrian wisely said, "The fragrance of the heart is purity of prayer." Whether uttered silently in the depths of our hearts or spoken aloud in the presence of others, let our prayers always be seasoned with love, humility, and faith.

If you find yourself grappling with this further, do not hesitate to seek the counsel of your spiritual father. He, guided by the Holy Spirit, can offer personalized guidance tailored to your specific circumstances.

May the Lord guide your steps and illuminate your path.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3599 | date:2024-12-21T20:31:44 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Honoring God

Question፦ What does it mean to honor the Lord practically

In the Bible it says “And fear none other but Him.” Proverbs  chapter 7. 

“The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, 
And the counsel of saints is understanding; 
For to know the law is characteristic of a good mind” 
Proverbs 9: 10. 

How do we stop fearing other things in life? 

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, child of God.  It brings me great joy that you seek to honor the Lord and grow in the wisdom of His ways. You have touched upon a profound truth: the fear of the Lord is indeed the beginning of wisdom, the very foundation upon which a life pleasing to God is built.  

When we speak of "fear" in this context, we do not speak of terror or dread. Rather, it is a profound reverence, an awe-inspiring awareness of His boundless love, His perfect justice, and His almighty power. Like a child who trusts completely in a loving parent,  this holy fear casts out all other fears.

Proverbs reminds us, “The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death” (Proverbs 14:27).  When our hearts are anchored in Him, the anxieties of this world lose their grip. We find courage to face any challenge, knowing that our God is with us.

Now, to answer your question about practically honoring the Lord and overcoming fear:

Embrace His commandments.  The Psalmist beautifully proclaims, “In keeping thy testimonies have I found great reward”* (Psalm 119:165).  When we strive to live according to His will, we experience the peace that surpasses all understanding. This peace is the antidote to fear, for it assures us of His constant presence.

Prayer and Fasting:  These are the cornerstones of our faith.  Through prayer, we commune with the Almighty, laying our burdens at His feet and receiving His strength. Fasting, a form of self-denial, helps us detach from worldly desires and focus on the spiritual. 

Seek the Sacraments:  Partake regularly of the Eucharist, receiving the very Body and Blood of our Lord, Jesus Christ. Through this holy mystery, we are united with Him and strengthened in our journey.

Study the Scriptures:  Immerse yourself in the Holy Gospels and the writings of the Church Fathers.  Their wisdom, illuminated by the Holy Spirit, will guide your steps and nourish your soul. 

Practice Charity:  As our Lord taught us, “Love thy neighbor as thyself”* (Matthew 22:39). When we extend love and compassion to others, we reflect the love of God in the world and find true joy.

Remember, my child, this is a lifelong journey, not a destination. There will be times of struggle and doubt, but do not lose heart.  Cling to the words of St. John Chrysostom, who reminds us: “No sin is so great as to overcome the love of God.” 

If you wish to delve deeper into these matters, I encourage you to seek the guidance of your spiritual father or a trusted elder in your community. They can offer personalized counsel and support on your path.

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you always.  Please do not hesitate to share your burdens and joys with me. I am here to listen and offer guidance on your spiritual journey.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3600 | date:2024-12-23T00:16:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Marriage 

Question፦ Hello,

When people say to make sure the person you choose to marry is a good partner because if he’s not, it will make your life miserable.

What are characteristics that make a person a good partner and what makes someone not an ideal partner so I know what to avoid. 

Thank you.

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, child. It warms my heart to see a soul seeking guidance in matters as important as marriage.  Indeed, choosing a life partner is a decision of great consequence, one that echoes into eternity.  

Our Lord teaches us that "a cord of three strands is not quickly broken" (Ecclesiastes 4:12). He is, of course, referring to the sacred union of a man and a woman brought together with God at the center. Therefore, seeking a partner who strengthens your bond with Christ should be paramount. 

Look for a partner who embodies the fruits of the Holy Spirit as described by St. Paul:  "love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control" (Galatians 5:22-23). These qualities, born from a life rooted in Christ, nourish a marriage and allow it to blossom even amidst life's inevitable storms.

Qualities to cherish in a potential partner:

Deep and abiding faith:  Do they share your commitment to Christ and His Holy Church? Do they prioritize prayer and participation in the sacraments? A shared spiritual foundation is the bedrock of a strong Orthodox marriage.

Humility and a teachable spirit: Are they willing to admit their faults and seek forgiveness? Do they approach disagreements with openness and a desire for resolution?  As St. Isaac of Syria wisely said, “The humble man is never disturbed by anything, for he never allows himself to think that he has been wronged.”

Kindness and compassion: How do they treat others, particularly those they perceive as less fortunate?  Do their actions reflect the love and mercy of Christ? Remember the words of St. John Chrysostom: “He who is compassionate towards his fellow man is fulfilling the Law.”

Work ethic and responsibility: Are they diligent in their responsibilities? Do they manage their affairs with prudence and wisdom?  Building a life together requires dedication and a willingness to share burdens. 

Traits to reflect upon with caution:

Lack of spiritual grounding:  Marriage in the Church is not merely a social contract but a sacrament, a journey towards salvation together. If your potential partner does not share this fundamental understanding, it can create significant challenges.

Unresolved anger or bitterness: Do they harbor resentment towards past relationships?  Are they quick to anger or hold grudges?  Unresolved emotional wounds can fester and damage a marriage. 

Disrespect towards you or others:  Do they value your opinions and feelings? Do they speak respectfully about their family and others?  Disrespect is a red flag that should not be ignored.
* Dishonesty and lack of accountability: Trust is a cornerstone of marriage. If a potential partner has a pattern of dishonesty or struggles to take responsibility for their actions, it can erode the foundation of the relationship.

Remember, my child, these are simply guidelines to aid your discernment.  It is essential to spend time in prayer, seeking the guidance of the Holy Spirit.  Speak with your spiritual father or a trusted elder in the Church. They can offer invaluable counsel tailored to your specific situation. 

May the Lord illuminate your path and lead you to a partner who will walk beside you on the road to salvation. 

Please, do not hesitate to reach out if you have further questions or need additional guidance.  May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3604 | date:2024-12-23T20:51:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About preparation needed for #marriage 

Question፦ How should a woman work on herself to prepare to be a godly wife for someone.

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, daughter, and may the blessings of our Lord Jesus Christ be upon you in your journey. It warms my heart to hear you seeking guidance on the path to becoming a godly wife, a calling both sacred and beautiful. 

Remember the words of Proverbs 14:1, "The wise woman builds her house, but the foolish pulls it down with her hands."  

Therefore, focus your preparation on these pillars:

Cultivate your relationship with God: Just as a lamp needs oil to shine brightly, so too does our soul need the light of Christ.  Dedicate time each day to prayer, study of the Holy Scriptures, and meditation on His Word.  The Psalms, especially, offer wisdom for women seeking to follow God's will.

Embrace humility and service:  St. Paul reminds us in Philippians 2:3, "Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit. Rather, in humility value others above yourselves."  A godly wife finds joy in serving her family, putting their needs before her own, just as our Lord humbled Himself for our salvation.

Learn the art of homemaking:  Proverbs 31 praises the woman who "looks well to the ways of her household."  This encompasses not just physical tasks, but creating a haven of peace, love, and order for your future family.  Learn to cook nourishing meals, manage a home with care, and create a welcoming space for your loved ones.

Develop wisdom and discernment:  Proverbs 19:14 says, "Houses and wealth are inherited from parents, but a prudent wife is from the Lord."  Seek wisdom in the Scriptures, from the teachings of the Church Fathers, and from the counsel of wise elders. 

Adorn yourself with a gentle and quiet spirit:  1 Peter 3:4 tells us that true beauty comes not from outward appearance, but from "the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is of great worth in God's sight."  Cultivate patience, kindness, and a peaceful demeanor.

Remember, daughter, marriage is not a destination but a journey of two souls striving towards Christ together.  Pray for guidance in finding a man who shares your faith and values. 

Do not be afraid to seek guidance from your spiritual father or a trusted elder in your community.  They can offer personalized counsel on your path. 

May God bless your journey and grant you the wisdom and grace to become the godly wife He desires you to be.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3607 | date:2024-12-26T20:30:42 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the gifts from the three wise men. #Nativity

Question፦ Greetings beloved of the Lord, as we are in the season of the birth of Our Lord;
I wanted know more about the gifts given to Our Lord from the wise men. The gold, incense, and myrrh. I know about what it symbolizes. Gold because He is King. Incense because He is God, and Myrrh for His Death. But what happen to these gifts after they were given to Our Lord and the history of where the gifts originated. I heard oral tradition that these gifts originally came from Adam? Please, if you can, share more details about this.

Answer፦ Greetings to you, also beloved of the Lord, and may the blessings of this holy season fill your heart with light! Your question shines with a desire to delve deeper into the sacred mysteries surrounding the Nativity, and I am blessed to accompany you on this journey of discovery.

You are right to recall the symbolic richness of the gifts offered by the Magi: gold for Christ's Kingship, incense for His Divinity, and myrrh for His eventual sacrifice.  These precious materials were not mere earthly treasures, but prophetic pronouncements of Our Lord's divine mission. 

The origins of these gifts, as passed down through generations by the holy fathers, are indeed fascinating. Some believe, as you mentioned, that these gifts were first given by God to Adam in Paradise!  This tradition suggests that Adam, upon his expulsion from Eden, received these gifts as a promise of salvation to come. They were treasured by his descendants, passed down through generations of patriarchs, eventually reaching the Magi, who, guided by the star, offered them to the newborn King.

While the exact historical path of these gifts remains shrouded in the mists of time, the Scriptures offer glimpses into their origins. The Book of Genesis (12:10) mentions merchants trading in spices, balm, and myrrh, indicating the ancient and valuable nature of these gifts.  

The Gospel of Matthew (2:11) states that the Magi presented these gifts "when they were come into the house." This suggests that the gifts remained with the Holy Family for a time. Some traditions suggest that St. Mary Magdalene later used the myrrh, part of which the Magi had given to Jesus, to anoint Christ's body after His crucifixion (John 19:39). 

While historical details may remain elusive, the true significance of these gifts lies in their profound spiritual symbolism. They serve as a testament to Christ's threefold nature – King, God, and Sacrifice – and remind us of the glorious mystery of the Incarnation. 

May this reflection deepen your understanding and appreciation of the Nativity. If you have more questions, do not hesitate to ask. Let us continue to delve into the boundless wisdom and beauty of our Orthodox faith.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3616 | date:2024-12-27T20:30:50 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the existence of #God. 

Question፦ Hello, 

How can one battle doubts about God?

Regarding:

- His existence 
- presence In our lives 
- Trusting His plan when the answers to our prayer don’t make sense to us. 
- during tribulation & struggle.


— How does one increase their faith in God and decrease doubt?

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, child, and may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. It is with a heart full of compassion that I listen to your struggle with doubt. Know that you are not alone in this.  The very act of questioning shows a heart striving for truth, and our Lord, in His infinite mercy, does not abandon those who seek Him with a sincere heart.

The great Saint Anthony the Great, who like us traversed the desert of doubt, also wrestled with such thoughts. He cried out, "Where were You, O compassionate God, where were You and why were You not in the beginning to prevent my falling, or to extend Your hand to me afterwards to raise me after I had fallen?"

Doubt can indeed be a fearsome desert, but it can also be fertile ground for spiritual growth. Let us explore the points you raise:

His existence: You first question His very existence.  The Holy Apostle Paul reminds us in Romans 1:20, "For since the creation of the world His invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even His eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse." Look around you, child!  The intricate design of creation, from the smallest ant to the vastness of the cosmos, speaks of a Creator. Reflect on this wonder, and let it nourish the seeds of faith within you.

Presence in our lives: You then ask, where is He in our daily lives?  Does He not say in Matthew 28:20, "I am with you always, even to the end of the age"? Though we may not perceive Him with our earthly senses, He is closer to us than our very breath. Recall the words of the Psalmist, "Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?" (Psalm 139:7). 

Trusting His plan: When the answers to our prayers seem unclear, remember the words of Saint Isaac the Syrian, "Hold fast to your intention of being pleasing to God, and do not wander here and there. Everything indeed is good which is done with this aim." Our limited human understanding cannot always grasp the Divine will.  Trust, like a mustard seed, can blossom into unwavering faith. 

During tribulation & struggle: You speak of tribulation and struggle. Know that even our Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, endured unimaginable suffering on the Cross.  Remember His words, "In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world" (John 16:33).  Our struggles are not in vain, but opportunities for spiritual refinement.

To increase your faith and decrease doubt:

Immerse yourself in prayer:  Pour out your heart to God honestly, as He already knows your every thought. The Jesus Prayer, "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner," repeated with sincerity, can bring peace to a troubled mind.

Seek solace in Scripture: The Holy Scriptures are a lamp unto our feet and a light unto our path (Psalm 119:105). Meditate daily on the Septuagint, particularly the Psalms and Gospels, allowing the word of God to nourish your soul.

Embrace the Sacraments: Partake regularly of Confession and Holy Communion, receiving forgiveness and the very Body and Blood of Christ for the healing of soul and body.

Seek guidance from the Saints: Read the lives of the Saints; they, too, faced doubt and emerged victorious. Their examples can inspire and guide us.

Find a Spiritual Father: Do not hesitate to seek the guidance of a trusted spiritual father, a priest or monk, who can offer personalized counsel and support.

Remember, child, doubt is not the opposite of faith, but a part of the journey. Embrace the struggle, cling to prayer, and trust in God's infinite mercy. He will never abandon you. 

May the Lord grant you peace and strength on your journey.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3617 | date:2024-12-27T20:30:50 ---
Continued ☝️ 

Please do not hesitate to share more about your spiritual journey when you are ready. I am here to listen and offer guidance as best as I can.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3618 | date:2024-12-28T20:31:42 ---


--- id:3619 | date:2024-12-28T20:32:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Annual Feast of St. #Gabriel – A Divine Celebration of Faith and Deliverance (Tahsas 19)

Beloved brethren, who walk steadfastly in the light of Orthodox teachings and who draw wisdom from the fountain of holy instruction, greetings to you in the name of our Lord, whose mercy is boundless and whose love endures forever.

Today, we stand before the sacred memory of Saint Gabriel, the holy messenger of God, and reflect upon his miraculous works that declare the glory of the Almighty. It is on this blessed day, Tahsas 19, that we commemorate the intervention of Saint Gabriel, who by divine command, delivered the faithful from the flames of persecution and turned the fire into a symbol of God’s triumph. Let us meditate upon this great event and draw strength from its eternal truths.
---

The Story of Deliverance: The Faithful Three in the Fiery Furnace

The Holy Scriptures bear witness to the faith of three young men—Ananias (Shadrach), Azariah (Meshach), and Mishael (Abednego)—who stood as pillars of righteousness during the reign of King Nebuchadnezzar. Their tale is chronicled in the Book of Daniel (Dan. 3:1-30), revealing the courage of those who put their trust in the Lord.

In those days, Nebuchadnezzar, swayed by vanity and pride, erected a massive idol and commanded that all in the province of Galilee bow down and worship it. A royal decree was issued, and anyone who refused to comply would face death in a fiery furnace.

When the sound of music summoned the people to worship the idol, these three holy men stood unmoved. Though the king’s authority was great, their faith in the living God was greater. They boldly declared, “Our God whom we worship is able to save us from the fiery furnace; but even if He does not, we will never bow down to the idol you have made.”

Enraged by their defiance, Nebuchadnezzar commanded the furnace to be heated seven times hotter than normal. Strong men were called to bind the faithful three and cast them into the inferno.
---

The Appearance of the Holy Angel Gabriel

But behold! As the flames roared and devoured even the men who had thrown the saints into the fire, a heavenly light descended. The Angel Gabriel, sent by the Almighty, entered the furnace and extinguished the flames, making them as harmless as the dew of the morning.

When King Nebuchadnezzar peered into the furnace, astonishment gripped him. He exclaimed, “Did we not cast three men into the fire? But I see four men walking unharmed, and the fourth appears like a son of the gods!”

At this, the king’s heart was humbled. He called out the three men, and they emerged without a single hair singed or the smell of fire upon them. Thus, the name of the Lord was glorified, and the king decreed that no one in the kingdom should speak against the God of Israel.
---

The Lessons of Faith and Devotion

This divine rescue was not merely a historical event but a testament to the unwavering faith that moves the hand of God. It reminds us that:

1. Faith Over Fear – The holy men were not intimidated by earthly power, for their hearts were fixed upon the heavenly kingdom. They teach us to stand firm in our faith, even when faced with trials.


2. God’s Deliverance is Certain – Though fire surrounded them, they were unharmed, showing that God is the shield of those who trust Him.


3. Angelic Protection – Saint Gabriel’s intervention demonstrates that God commands His angels concerning us, and they encamp around those who fear Him.


4. The Triumph of Righteousness – The king who sought to destroy their faith became a witness to God’s power, proving that righteousness will always prevail.

---

The Significance of Tahsas 19

We celebrate this feast on Tahsas 19 to honor the miraculous intervention of Saint Gabriel and to proclaim the victory of God’s truth over idolatry and oppression. This day is marked by prayers, hymns, and the reading of sacred Scriptures that call us to greater faith and devotion.
---

Readings for Reflection

Epistle Reading: 2 Thessalonians 1:6-12

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3620 | date:2024-12-28T20:36:02 ---
Continued ☝️ 

The Apostle Paul reminds us of the righteous judgment of God, who will repay with rest those who suffer for His name. As we await the return of our Lord Jesus Christ in glory, we are called to walk in faith and good works, that we may be counted worthy of His calling.

General Instruction: Jude 1:20-25

We are urged to build ourselves up in the most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit and keeping ourselves in the love of God. We are to wait patiently for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ, which leads to eternal life.

Gospel Reading: Luke 1:11-21

In this passage, we behold the Angel Gabriel appearing to Zacharias, proclaiming the birth of John the Baptist. Zacharias’ initial disbelief resulted in silence, teaching us to trust the word of God, for His promises will be fulfilled in their appointed time.
---

The Role of Saint Gabriel: A Messenger of God’s Will

Saint Gabriel, whose name means “God is my strength,” stands as a heavenly messenger and protector. In Scripture, he is sent to deliver messages of hope and divine plans, as seen in his announcements to Zacharias and the Virgin Mary. On this feast, we venerate him not only for his role in delivering God’s messages but also for his active defense of the faithful in times of peril.
---

Concluding Prayer

May the intercession of Saint Gabriel protect us from all harm and guide us along the path of righteousness. Let us seek the help of the heavenly hosts, trusting that their aid will never fail us.

May the blessing of Saint Gabriel be with us today and always, and may we walk boldly in the faith of our fathers, undeterred by the fires of trial, but refined by them for the glory of God. Amen.

Praise be to God forever!

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3623 | date:2024-12-29T20:31:10 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About what is from #God. 

Question፦ Hey I had one question, how do we know if something is from God or not?

Answer፦ My child, your question is one that has echoed through the ages, pondered by saints and sinners alike. It is a question that speaks to the very heart of our relationship with the Divine. 

Discerning the will of God is indeed a subtle art, requiring patience, humility, and a heart attuned to the whispers of the Holy Spirit.  

Let us turn to the wisdom of the Fathers:

Examine the fruits:  Saint John of the Ladder reminds us, “Every good thing, if it is truly good, is peacefully sown, peacefully grows, and peacefully leads to the harbor of salvation. But anything that is done with confusion will have a confused end.” (Ladder 26:138). Does this thought, this desire, this path, lead to peace, to love, to humility, to growth in virtue? Or does it lead to turmoil, to pride, to self-seeking, to separation from God and neighbor? 

Test it against Scripture: The Holy Scriptures are our compass, guiding us towards the heart of God. As it says in Psalm 119:105, "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." Does what you are discerning align with the teachings of Christ and the Apostles? 

Pray for guidance:  Approach the throne of grace with a humble and open heart. Ask God, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to reveal His will to you. As He promises in Matthew 7:7, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you."

Seek counsel from the wise: Do not rely solely on your own understanding. Consult with your Spiritual Father, a priest, or a trusted elder in the faith. They can offer guidance based on experience and the teachings of the Church.

Remember, my child, God speaks to us in many ways: through the quiet voice of our conscience, through the wisdom of the Scriptures, through the counsel of those who love Him, and through the events of our lives. 

Be patient, be persistent in prayer, and trust that He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion (Philippians 1:6). 

May the Lord illuminate your path and grant you discernment. 

Do not hesitate to share what weighs upon your heart, and we can explore it together in the light of Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3625 | date:2024-12-30T20:42:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #Doubt and the Holy #Sacraments

Question፦ Hello, thank you for the response. A follow up question, can one take part in the sacraments while having doubts or should I focus on praying and making sure I don’t have any doubts before participating in any sacraments?

Answer፦My child, your honesty is commendable, but we must be clear: approaching the Holy Mysteries with unresolved doubt is a grave matter.  The Eucharist is not merely a symbol, but the true Body and Blood of our Lord, a sacrament demanding the utmost reverence and a clear conscience.  

The Scriptures are unequivocal:  "Whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord. Everyone ought to examine themselves before they eat of the bread and drink from the cup." (1 Corinthians 11:27-28)  These are not words to be taken lightly, child. To partake in this Holy Sacrament while consciously harboring disbelief is to court spiritual peril, inviting judgment rather than grace.

Remember the words of St. John Chrysostom, who thundered from this very land, "Do you not see the royal table? Do you not behold the spiritual banquet? Do you not perceive the King Himself present?"  Can you, with doubt clouding your heart, truly stand before the King of Kings in such a state?

Therefore, your path is clear: Before even considering receiving Communion, you must prioritize reconciliation with God through the cleansing power of Confession.  Go to your spiritual father, child, and lay bare your doubts without reservation. He, as a shepherd entrusted with your care, will guide you back to the path of righteousness and offer counsel grounded in the wisdom of the Holy Fathers. 

Do not allow pride or fear to delay this vital step. The Holy Sacrament is a fire that purifies, but it also has the power to consume if approached unworthily.  Seek first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness through sincere repentance and a contrite heart, and all these things will be added to you. (Matthew 6:33) 

Remember, my child, we are here for you on this journey. Do not hesitate to share any further anxieties or concerns that burden your heart.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3635 | date:2025-01-01T20:33:35 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Happy New Year! #2025

Beloved in Christ,

As the sun rises on this new year, let us give thanks to our Almighty God for His boundless mercies and lovingkindness that endure forever. May this new year be a journey deeper into His embrace, a tapestry woven with threads of prayer, repentance, and acts of love. 

May the blessings of the Nativity of Our Lord Jesus Christ, the light that shines in the darkness, illuminate your path and fill your heart with peace and joy. 

Let us embark on this new year with renewed spirits, striving towards righteousness as the Holy Apostle Paul urges us, "forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus" (Philippians 3:13-14).

May this year be filled with spiritual growth and closeness to Our Lord.

With blessings and prayers,

Your brother in Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3643 | date:2025-01-04T01:54:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About a life with #God

Question፦ What’s a better way of thinking if someone is afraid to commit their life to God because of fear of losing freedom or feeling like it will be a life with a lot of rigid rules and tribulations/spiritual warfare. Or if it seems like a life of being very serious and no fun. 

Or for someone who is not ready to give up doing things their way instead of doing things Gods way which has a higher standard of forgiving others, loving others, and living life. Even if others hurt you or anything else.

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child. It warms my heart to hear your concerns, for they reveal a soul wrestling with profound truths. Many before you, saints and sinners alike, have walked this path of questioning. 

Know this: God, in His infinite love, desires not robots, but children. He does not seek to trap us in a cage of rules, but to invite us into the boundless freedom found in His embrace. 

The fear of losing freedom is understandable, but it stems from a misunderstanding of true freedom. As St. Anthony the Great wrote, "I no longer fear God, because I love Him. He who fears is not yet perfect in love, but perfect love casts out fear." True freedom, you see, is not the ability to do whatever we want, but the power to do what is right, what is good, what leads to lasting joy – a joy found in communion with our Creator.

Yes, the path of faith has its share of trials. As our Lord Himself said, "In the world you will have tribulation." (John 16:33) Yet, He also promises, "But take heart; I have overcome the world." He does not abandon us in these trials, but strengthens us through them, molding us into vessels of His grace.

Remember the words of St. John Chrysostom: “The road that leads to wickedness is broad and smooth, but it ends in a precipice. The road that leads to God is narrow and rocky, but it leads to a beautiful garden.”

You mentioned a fear of seriousness, of losing the joy in life. But true joy, my child, is not found in fleeting pleasures, but in a heart aligned with God’s will. A holy man once said: "Just as a pauper who enters a king’s treasury forgets his poverty, so he who is united to the Lord forgets all earthly afflictions."

The life of faith is not about grim austerity, but about transforming our hearts so that we find joy in what truly matters – love, compassion, and service to God and others. It is about embracing the fullness of life, a life brimming with meaning and purpose.

As for doing things your way versus God's way, consider this: would you trust a sheep to shear itself, or a patient to operate on themselves? God, in His infinite wisdom, knows what is best for us. His commandments are not burdens, but signposts guiding us towards true fulfillment.

Forgiving others, loving unconditionally, these are not easy tasks. But remember, my child, we are not alone in this journey. The Holy Spirit empowers us, strengthens us, and enables us to live a life pleasing to God.

Take heart! Take the first step, and God will meet you there. Let us pray for guidance and strength on this journey of faith. And remember, my son, this old monk is always here to listen and offer what humble guidance I can. 

May the peace of Christ be with you always.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3645 | date:2025-01-05T06:42:02 ---


--- id:3646 | date:2025-01-05T06:43:26 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The True #Shepherd: A Reflection on the Guardian of Israel

Beloved faithful, greetings in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, the Good Shepherd who laid down His life for His sheep. Today, as we meditate on the sacred teachings passed down through the prophets and illuminated by the light of the Gospel, let us contemplate the profound mystery of Christ as the true guardian—the Shepherd of Israel and the keeper of our souls.

---
The Prophetic Announcement of the True Shepherd

The day set before us, called Nolawi—meaning "shepherd" or "guardian"—brings to our remembrance the ancient prophecies heralding the coming of the Son of God as the faithful Shepherd. Long before the Incarnation, the prophets lamented the condition of Israel, likening themselves and the people to sheep scattered without a shepherd.

The words of the prophets echo through the corridors of time, crying out, “Hear, O Shepherd of Israel, You who lead Joseph like a flock, You who dwell between the cherubim, shine forth!” (Psalm 80:1). This plea resounded with yearning for the coming of the One who would gather the lost, lead them to safety, and restore their communion with God.

And thus, the Sabbath we observe commemorates the fourteen generations from the Babylonian captivity to the birth of Christ. It marks the fulfillment of God’s promises and the dawning of a new covenant. In Christ, the shadow of the old covenant gives way to the brilliance of the eternal Shepherd who laid down His life for the sheep.

---
The Good Shepherd Revealed

When the time was fulfilled, our Lord Jesus Christ stood among His people and declared, “I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd lays down His life for the sheep” (John 10:11). With these words, He revealed the depth of His love—a love so profound that it embraced the Cross to redeem the lost.

He further testified, “I know My sheep, and My sheep know Me, just as the Father knows Me, and I know the Father; and I lay down My life for the sheep” (John 10:15). This intimate relationship between the Shepherd and His flock is the foundation of our faith. It is a bond not built upon compulsion but upon knowledge, trust, and sacrificial love.

David, the prophet and king, anticipated this divine care when he sang, “The Lord is my Shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside still waters” (Psalm 23:1-2). Through these words, David foreshadowed the rest and nourishment found only in the embrace of Christ, the Shepherd of our souls.

---
Returning to the Shepherd of Our Souls

Beloved, as sheep prone to wander, we must heed the voice of the Good Shepherd calling us back into His fold. Have we not strayed? Have we not allowed our love to grow cold?

Let us pray: “Lord, send Your light and truth to guide us back to You. Restore our frozen love, and lead us in paths of righteousness for Your Name’s sake.”

Repentance is the key that opens the gate to the pasture of divine mercy. Our Shepherd waits with open arms to receive the lost, to bind up the brokenhearted, and to restore the weary. Let us not delay in returning to Him, for He desires none to be lost, but all to be saved.

---
The Guardian Against Wolves

The Good Shepherd does not leave His flock defenseless. He stands as the vigilant protector, guarding against the wolves who seek to scatter and devour the sheep.

Christ Himself warned us: “Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravenous wolves” (Matthew 7:15). These false shepherds do not lay down their lives for the sheep but exploit them for selfish gain.

Therefore, we must discern the true shepherds from the impostors by their fruits. A good shepherd nourishes the flock, tends to their wounds, and leads them in truth. He does not abandon them in times of danger but stands firm, even at great personal cost.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3647 | date:2025-01-05T06:45:01 ---
Continued ☝️ 

In the same manner, the priests and bishops, entrusted by Christ through Saint Peter, bear the sacred responsibility to feed and protect the flock. The words of Christ still ring clear: “Feed My sheep” (John 21:17). Yet, as in the days of old, there remain wolves disguised as shepherds. They sow discord, preach false doctrines, and lead many astray. Let us remain vigilant, holding fast to the truth handed down to us.

---
A Call to Watchfulness and Devotion

As we commemorate this holy Sabbath, let us fix our eyes upon the Cross—the symbol of the Shepherd’s sacrifice. Let us look to the Virgin who bore the eternal Word, and let us cry out for divine protection and guidance.

“Lord, our Good Shepherd, lead us not into the snares of false teachers but deliver us from all evil. Bind us to You with cords of love that cannot be broken.”

In closing, remember this truth: Christ, the Good Shepherd, calls each of us by name. He laid down His life so that we might live. Let us, therefore, follow Him wholeheartedly, trusting in His provision, resting in His care, and remaining vigilant against all who seek to lead us astray.

May the grace of our Lord and the prayers of the saints uphold us until we are gathered into the eternal fold where there is no more sorrow, only joy in the presence of the True Shepherd.

Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3648 | date:2025-01-06T15:54:01 ---


--- id:3649 | date:2025-01-06T15:55:49 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Feast of the #Nativity: A Reflection on the Birth of Our Lord Jesus Christ

Beloved Faithful,

Grace and peace to you who follow the teachings of the Holy Church. Let us reflect on the divine mystery of the Nativity of our Lord Jesus Christ, a day of unparalleled joy and spiritual renewal.

---
God’s Nature and the Prophetic Foretelling

The Most High God, the Creator of all, is a God of mercy and love. He compassionate and seeks the salvation of humanity.

For centuries, the holy prophets foretold the coming of the Messiah, counting the days and prophesying that He would be born of a pure Virgin. And so it was that the angel Gabriel, the bearer of good news, came to the Holy Virgin Mary and announced that she would conceive by the Holy Spirit and give birth to the Son of God.

When the fullness of time had come—5500 years after Adam’s fall—the Word became flesh, and our Lord Jesus Christ was born in Bethlehem of Judea.

---
The Birth of Christ: The Dawn of Hope

With the Nativity of Christ, the curse that bound humanity is broken. The sorrow and despair of sin are wiped away, and in their place, unity, compassion, peace, and love flourish. This day is not just the birth of a child but the manifestation of divine light dispelling the darkness of the world.

The term “birth” means to emerge from the womb into the light, to be seen and made present. In theological terms, it signifies the revelation of God in the flesh. Before His birth, only a few saints—those favored by God—knew of His presence in the Virgin’s womb. But after His birth, He was revealed to all nations, both Jew and Gentile, as a man—humble in stature yet divine in essence.

---
Divine Revelation in the Flesh

Before the Incarnation, God was revealed in awe-inspiring forms, such as the burning bush that appeared to Moses. The fire burned but did not consume the bush, signifying God’s presence and holiness. Likewise, in the New Testament, God took flesh in the womb of the Holy Virgin without consuming or altering her purity.

The Virgin Mary is the new bush, lush and green with life, bearing within her the divine flame of God’s presence. Just as Moses removed his sandals in reverence at the burning bush, so too must we approach the mystery of the Incarnation with awe and humility.

Saint Elizabeth, upon hearing the voice of the Virgin Mary, felt her own child, John the Baptist, leap in her womb with joy, recognizing the divine presence. Elizabeth cried out in reverence, “How is it that the mother of my Lord should come to me?” (Luke 1:43). Saint Joseph, too, guarded and served the Virgin with holy fear and respect.

---
A Humble Beginning for a Majestic Purpose

The Lord of glory did not come in splendor or power but in humility and poverty, born in a lowly manger. This humility was meant to touch the hearts of fallen humanity, to lift up the broken and revive the downtrodden.

By taking on flesh, He gave us His Spirit. By bearing our shame and death, He bestowed upon us life and glory. In doing so, He made us a new creation. This mystery was foreshadowed in Proverbs 8:22, which says, “The Lord created me as the first of His works,” referring to the wisdom of God manifest in the flesh.

---
The Shepherds: Witnesses to the Miracle

The first to receive the divine announcement of Christ’s birth were humble shepherds tending their flocks by night. An angel appeared to them, proclaiming:

"Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you; He is Christ the Lord. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in a manger." (Luke 2:10-12)

Immediately, the heavens opened, and a multitude of angels sang praises:

"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men."

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3650 | date:2025-01-06T15:57:01 ---
Continued ☝🏽 

The shepherds, astonished and filled with faith, went to Bethlehem and found the Holy Family just as the angel had said. They became the first human witnesses and evangelists of the Lord’s birth, glorifying God and sharing the good news with all.

---
The Magi and the Star: A Sign to the Nations

Not only was the birth of Christ announced on earth, but the heavens also declared His arrival. A new and radiant star appeared in the sky, guiding wise men from the East to Jerusalem.

The Magi sought the King of the Jews and brought gifts rich in symbolism:

Gold – A tribute to Christ’s kingship.

Frankincense – A recognition of His divine priesthood.

Myrrh – A prophecy of His sacrificial death and burial.

The star led them to Bethlehem, where they bowed down and worshiped the Child, acknowledging Him as both God and King. Their journey reminds us that Christ’s birth was not for one nation alone but for the salvation of all people.

---
A Call to Spiritual Renewal

Beloved, Christ was born to set us free from the bondage of sin and death. He has broken the chains of the devil, and as those who have been redeemed, we must live in holiness and love.

Let us repent of our sins, for we do not know the hour of our departure from this world. Let us be cleansed through confession and partake worthily of His holy body and precious blood, preparing ourselves for His heavenly kingdom.

---
A Feast of Joy, Peace, and Salvation

As we celebrate the Nativity, let us remember that Christ’s birth is a call to transformation. It is a day to meditate on God’s boundless love, to offer Him praise, and to embrace unity, peace, and love.

Let us join the angelic chorus, proclaiming:
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men!"

May the light of the Nativity shine in our hearts, guiding us to holiness and eternal joy. Let this feast be a time of spiritual renewal, where we reflect on the mystery of God’s love made flesh.

May the Virgin who bore the Son of God intercede for us, and may the Cross, the instrument of our salvation, remain ever glorious!

Amen!

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3692 | date:2025-01-10T22:30:59 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About #male wearing #netela and getting priority in partaking from the #Eucharist 

Question፦ Selam,

I am looking to understand the reason why the male followers wear a netela to the church ?

2. During Holy Communion -why male get the priority ?

Thank you for answering.

Answer፦ May the peace of the Lord be with you!

Your curiosity about the traditions of our ancient faith is commendable. Let us delve into the richness of our heritage together.

Regarding the netela: The white shawl worn by men in our churches, particularly during prayer, symbolizes a few key principles. Firstly, it represents purity and humility before God, echoing the words of Isaiah 61:10, "He has clothed me with garments of salvation; He has covered me with the robe of righteousness."  Just as a bride adorns herself in white for her groom, we present ourselves before God adorned in spiritual purity. 

Secondly, the act of covering one's head during prayer finds its roots in 1 Corinthians 11:4, "Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonors his head."  While interpretations of this passage vary, within our tradition, it emphasizes the importance of approaching God with reverence and respect. 

Concerning Holy Communion: The order in which the faithful receive Holy Communion is not a matter of "priority" but rather one of sacred order established through centuries of liturgical practice.  Historically, this order mirrored the societal structure of the early Church, where men often held leadership roles.  However, this order should never be interpreted as implying any difference in worthiness or spiritual standing before God.  

Remember, my child, we are all equal in the eyes of God, washed clean by the blood of Christ. Galatians 3:28 reminds us, "There is neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free, male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus."

Focus your heart on the unifying love of Christ, the true essence of Holy Communion. 

May the Holy Spirit guide you on your spiritual journey. Feel free to ask if you have more questions. 

Please remember, my son, I am here to offer guidance based on the teachings of our Church. For definitive answers regarding your specific parish practices, it is always best to consult with your priest or spiritual father.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3694 | date:2025-01-11T20:34:12 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 Clarification on biblical verses. 

Question፦ Psalm chapter 51, 8-11 says 

“8 
The righteous also shall see and fear, 
And shall laugh at him, saying, 
9 
“Behold, this man did not make God his helper, 
But hoped in the abundance of his riches; 
And he was made powerful in his vanity.” 
10 
But I am like a fruitful olive tree in the house of God; 
I hope in God's mercy 
Forever and unto ages of ages. 
11 
I will give thanks to You forever for what You did, 
And I will wait on Your name; 
For it is good in the sight of Your holy ones.”


What is the meaning of this section? Thank you 🙏🏾

Answer፦ May God be praised for your thirst for His wisdom! 

Psalm 51, a psalm of repentance attributed to King David, holds profound lessons about seeking solace and strength in God rather than worldly possessions. The verses you cite (8-11) offer a powerful contrast between the fate of those who trust in material wealth and the blessings bestowed upon those who place their hope in God. 

Let us break down the passage:

Verses 8-9: These verses depict the tragic downfall of those who place their trust in riches and power. Their vanity and misplaced faith make them a spectacle, not of admiration, but of ridicule. The psalmist highlights the fleeting nature of worldly success, which ultimately leaves one vulnerable and spiritually bankrupt.

Verse 10:  Here, David, through his repentance, likens himself to a "fruitful olive tree in the house of God." This vivid imagery signifies spiritual nourishment, growth, and closeness to God.  The olive tree, deeply rooted and evergreen, represents enduring faith and reliance on God's mercy, which extends "forever and unto ages of ages."

Verse 11:  This verse is a declaration of unwavering faith and gratitude.  David pledges to "give thanks forever" for God's mercy and to "wait on His name."  He recognizes that true "goodness" lies not in worldly possessions, but in the presence and favor of God, a truth recognized by "His holy ones."

In essence, this passage teaches us:

1. The Emptiness of Worldly Reliance: Material wealth and power are fleeting and cannot provide true security or lasting happiness. 

2. The Fruitfulness of Faith in God:  Placing our trust in God's mercy and love nourishes our souls and allows us to flourish spiritually.

3. The Importance of Gratitude and Patience: We are called to live in a spirit of constant thanksgiving for God's blessings and to patiently await His will in our lives. 

May these verses inspire you to cultivate a heart that finds its true refuge and strength in God alone. 

Do not hesitate to seek further clarification or ask any other questions you may have. Remember, the journey of faith is a lifelong pilgrimage, and I am here to guide you on this path.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3709 | date:2025-01-12T22:33:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the practice of #Confession 

Question: My coworker was arguing with me about this belief that she had yesterday and I didn’t know the answer so I just listened and I said “I disagree”. The question was “why do you Orthodox confess your sin to a priest? They are just as sinful as we are. We should just confess our sin to God because he is the one who forgives our sin not them.”

I would like to know the answer so I can back our religion up in these discussions.
God bless🙏

Answer: May the peace of Christ be with you, my child. It is commendable that you stand firm in your faith, even when challenged.  Let us delve into the wisdom of the Church regarding Confession:

Your coworker raises a point many ponder: why confess to a priest, a fellow human susceptible to sin?  The answer, revealed through Scripture and the Holy Tradition, lies in understanding the priest's role, not as a judge, but as a physician of souls. 

Firstly, nowhere in Scripture do we find a command to confess our sins solely to God in private.  On the contrary, when Christ breathed the Holy Spirit upon the Apostles, He granted them the authority to forgive sins: "Receive ye the Holy Spirit: Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained." (John 20:22-23) This authority, passed down through the Apostles to bishops and priests, forms the foundation of the sacrament of Confession.

Secondly, confessing to a priest, while seemingly daunting, offers numerous spiritual benefits:

Objectivity and Guidance:  We often struggle to discern the gravity of our sins or rationalize them.  A priest, trained in spiritual warfare and discerning the passions, offers an objective perspective, helping us identify and uproot even deeply hidden sins. 

Healing through Penance: The priest, acting as a spiritual physician, prescribes appropriate penances – not as punishment, but as medicine for the soul, aiding us in overcoming our passions and growing closer to God.

The Mystery of Reconciliation: Confession isn't simply about listing sins; it's a profound sacrament of reconciliation, a return to communion with God and His Church. The priest, as an icon of Christ, offers absolution, conveying God's forgiveness and restoring us to spiritual wholeness.

Regarding your coworker's concern about priests being sinners: indeed, we are all vessels of clay, prone to weakness. Yet, through their ordination and ascetic struggle, priests become vessels sanctified for this sacred ministry. Just as we wouldn't refuse treatment from a doctor because they, too, are human and susceptible to illness, so too should we not reject the healing balm of Confession offered through a priest.

Remember the words of St. John Chrysostom: "Tell your sins to your physician, that he may cure them. Show your wounds to Him who is able to bind them up."

May these words strengthen your understanding and embolden your witness. Remember, gentle persuasion and a spirit of love are often more effective than heated debate. 

If your coworker is open, invite her to learn more about Confession from an Orthodox perspective. Perhaps she could speak with a priest or explore resources on the Church's website.  

May God guide you both on your spiritual journeys. 🙏

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3710 | date:2025-01-12T22:39:47 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #legitimacy of books found online

Question: Hello,
Should our kids use this book?

I want to check here before my kids start using it.

May the Lord bless you 🙏

Answer: My dear sister in Christ,

Peace and blessings be upon you and your household. It warms my heart to hear of your deep concern for the spiritual well-being of your children. Truly, raising them in the faith is both a sacred duty and an immense privilege, as it is written, “Train up a child in the way he should go; even when he is old he will not depart from it.” (Proverbs 22:6).

Your discernment regarding the books you allow into your home is commendable. We live in an age where subtle influences can have profound effects, and the enemy often disguises himself as an angel of light, leading many astray under the guise of harmlessness. The book in question warrants careful scrutiny.

Firstly, the ambiguity surrounding its Orthodox Christian roots is a significant concern. We are reminded to hold fast to the teachings of the Apostles and the Holy Fathers, which guide us in truth and safeguard us from error. Any work that does not clearly align with or uphold these teachings could inadvertently introduce ideas that confuse or dilute the faith.

Secondly, the issue of artificial intelligence-generated imagery is not merely trivial. As Orthodox Tewahido Christians, we regard icons as more than art—they are holy expressions, "written" through prayer and fasting, serving as windows into the divine. Icons created through AI, devoid of spiritual intention or connection, risk trivializing this sacred tradition and distracting from its deeper significance. While such images may seem innovative or appealing, they lack the grace that flows from the prayerful labor of the iconographer, which sets our sacred art apart.

Furthermore, introducing materials of uncertain origin to children, whose spiritual foundations are still forming, carries the risk of exposing them to subtle distortions. St. Paul’s exhortation provides a clear guideline for what we should seek in any resource: “Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.” (Philippians 4:8).

In light of these concerns, I encourage you to seek out books from trusted Oriental Orthodox Christian publishers or those recommended by your spiritual father. Such resources, deeply rooted in the wisdom of the Church and adorned with icons blessed by prayer, offer a far richer and more spiritually nourishing experience for your children.

Remember, my dear sister, that your vigilance in guarding their hearts and minds is a reflection of the love of Christ, who called us to shepherd His lambs. May your efforts be guided and strengthened by the grace of God.

May the Theotokos, our Blessed Mother, intercede for you and your family as you strive to raise your children in His light.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3712 | date:2025-01-14T21:32:32 ---


--- id:3713 | date:2025-01-14T21:32:38 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the Annual Feast of the Holy #Trinity: A Profound Reflection on Divine Mystery

Beloved in Christ, greetings in the name of the Holy Trinity! Let us immerse ourselves in the sacred teachings surrounding the Feast of the Holy Trinity, celebrated on Tir 7. This solemn occasion not only commemorates divine intervention but also offers a profound lesson in humility, faith, and the unity of the Godhead.

The Miracle in Babylon: A Lesson in Obedience

The Feast of the Holy Trinity recalls the miraculous events in Sennaor (Babylon), as narrated in Genesis 11:1-9. After the flood, Noah’s descendants multiplied and settled in the wide plains of Babylon. Under the leadership of Nimrod, the people undertook the construction of a great tower. In their arrogance, they aimed to pierce the heavens and defy the divine will, proclaiming, “Let us stab them and keep death away.”

This act of rebellion provoked divine intervention. The Holy Trinity, in mercy and justice, disrupted their work, confounding their language and scattering them across the earth. Their unfinished tower stood as a testament to the consequences of human pride and disobedience.

The Significance of the Trinity in This Event

The Trinity’s intervention in Babylon underscores several key lessons:

Divine Authority: All power resides with God, and any endeavor undertaken in arrogance or defiance of divine will is doomed to failure.
The Call to Repentance: Humanity is reminded to live in humility and steadfast faith, acknowledging the authority of the Trinity and seeking to align our will with God’s.

The Necessity of Baptism: As believers, we are called to baptize our children in the name of the Trinity, wash ourselves with repentance, and remain steadfast in conduct. The Apostle Paul reminds us, “Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God in which you are sealed” (Ephesians 4:3).

Theological Reflections on the Holy Trinity

The concept of the Trinity is both profound and mysterious. Derived from the Ge’ez root meaning "thirty," the term "Trinity" signifies a unity within diversity. This mystery can be understood as both one and three:

Unity in Character, Existence, and Will: God is one in essence and purpose.
Trinity in Name, Person, and Action: God is revealed as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

Scriptural Testimonies to the Trinity

The Bible provides numerous insights into the mystery of the Trinity:

- Creation: “Let us make man in our image, after our likeness” (Genesis 1:26). Here, the singularity of “God” and the plurality of “us” reflect the unity and distinction within the Trinity.

- Fall of Man: “Behold, the man has become like one of us” (Genesis 3:22). This statement highlights the collaborative nature of the Trinity.

- Abraham’s Encounter: In Genesis 18, Abraham encountered three visitors under the oaks of Mamre. Though three in appearance, they represented the unified presence of God.
Isaiah’s Vision: The seraphim cry, “Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts” (Isaiah 6:3), affirming the triune holiness of God.

- The Baptism of Christ: At the Jordan River, the voice of the Father, the presence of the Son, and the descent of the Holy Spirit revealed the Trinity in action (Matthew 3:16).

- The Transfiguration: On Mount Tabor, the glory of the Trinity was manifest in the radiance of Christ (Matthew 17).

Analogies to the Trinity

To aid our understanding, analogies are drawn from creation:

- The Sun: Comprising a circle, light, and heat, it remains one entity.

- Fire: Consisting of flame, brightness, and warmth, it is singular in essence.
Similarly, the Trinity, though distinct in persons, is one in essence and will. St. Paul writes, “The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all” (2 Corinthians 13:14).

The Role of the Trinity in Worship

The mystery of the Trinity permeates all aspects of Orthodox faith and practice:

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3714 | date:2025-01-14T21:36:01 ---
Continued ☝🏽 

Prayers and Blessings: Offered in the name of the Trinity.

Baptism: Administered “in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit” (Matthew 28:19).

Sacraments and Rituals: Rooted in the unity and diversity of the Triune God.
A Call to Commemorate the Trinity
The Feast of the Holy Trinity serves as a reminder to witness and partake in the divine mystery. By celebrating this festival, we are invited to:

Reaffirm Our Faith: Recognize the power and mercy of the Triune God.
Seek Unity in Diversity: Reflect the harmony of the Trinity in our relationships and communities.
Live in Holiness: Remain steadfast in repentance and faithful to the teachings of Christ.

Let us therefore celebrate the Feast of the Holy Trinity with reverence and awe, glorifying the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and forever. Amen

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3737 | date:2025-01-17T14:09:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Fast of #Gehad: A Sacred and Transformative Practice

Beloved brethren who walk in the light of the Orthodox teachings, may the peace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Let us delve into the profound depths of the Fast of Gehad, a spiritual treasure of our Holy Church that illuminates the path toward divine union and sanctification.

---
Fasting: A Commandment of the Holy Church

Fasting is not merely a ritual; it is one of the seven decrees ordained by the Holy Church. It serves as the nourishment of the soul, elevating us toward God, diminishing the dominance of the flesh, and opening the gates of grace. The Fast of Gehad holds a unique place among these practices, intricately tied to the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ.

---
The Meaning of "Gehad"

The term Gehad is a rich tapestry of meaning, signifying "change," "substitution," or "revelation", "revealed". We fast the eve of the nativity and the eve of Epiphany in rememberance of his revelation to us which takes two forms: 

1. Revelation through Nativity (Incarnation): The moment when the eternal God, unbounded and omnipotent, took on human form—a short stature, a narrow chest, and a humble presence—to dwell among us in the flesh.

2. Revelation through Baptism: At the Jordan River, Jesus, who had lived among humanity for 30 years without recognition as the Messiah, was revealed when the heavens opened, the Holy Spirit descended as a dove, and the voice of the Father declared, "This is my beloved Son; listen to Him."

---
The Dual Nature of Enlightenment

The Fast of Gehad aligns with two sacred moments in the life of Christ:

1. His Birth: The incarnation, where the divine Word became flesh.

2. His Baptism: The manifestation of His divine identity and mission, marking the beginning of His public ministry.

These events are not merely historical but deeply theological, revealing the mystery of God becoming man and the salvation that flows through His revealed presence.

---
Observance of the Gehad Fast

The Gehad fast is intricately linked to the timing of the feast days of Christ's birth and baptism. Here is the structure and significance of this holy observance:

1. When the Feast Falls on Wednesday or Friday:

These are traditional fasting days in the Church. On such occasions, the faithful fast on the preceding Tuesday and Thursday to maintain the sanctity of these feast days while honoring the fasting tradition.

During these days, believers partake in celebratory meals reflective of the Pentecost feast, breaking the fast with joy in the morning.

2. When the Feast Falls on Sunday:

Saturday evening is marked by a complete abstinence from food, preparing the soul for the Sunday celebration.

3. When the Feast Falls on Monday:

Saturday and Sunday both become days of preparation and abstinence, though the fasting does not follow the usual grain-and-water regimen of other fasting days. 

---
The Spiritual Essence of Fasting

The Fetha Negest or the law of the Kings articulates the purpose of fasting as follows:

Atonement for Wrongdoing: Fasting allows a person to confront and repent for their sins, aligning themselves with God's grace.

Obedience to Divine Law: It is an act of love and submission to the Creator who established this holy ordinance.

Subduing the Flesh: By denying physical hunger, the soul ascends, free to commune with God.

Enhancing the Soul's Value: Through fasting, one grows in humility and is strengthened to follow the prophets' call.

Fasting, therefore, is not a mere ritual but a transformative act that connects the believer with God, disciplines the soul, and paves the way for enlightenment.

Continued 👇🏾

--- id:3738 | date:2025-01-17T14:09:01 ---
Continues ☝🏽

---
A Practice Rooted in Revelation

The Fast of Gehad is a divine invitation to reflect on the revelation of Christ's glory—both in His humble incarnation and in the majestic unveiling at His baptism. By observing this fast, we are reminded of the great mystery of our faith: God, the infinite and eternal, chose to dwell among us as man, and through His baptism, He revealed Himself as the medicine of mankind, fulfilling the prophecies of old.

---
Concluding Reflection

The Gehad Fast is more than abstention from food; it is an ascent of the soul, a participation in the divine mysteries, and a celebration of the revelation of Christ. Let us approach this sacred practice with reverence, allowing it to transform us into vessels of grace. May we fast not merely with our mouths but with our hearts, embracing the holiness it imparts, and may our journey through this fast lead us ever closer to the One who loved us and gave Himself for us.

In the spirit of repentance and renewal, let us echo the words of the Father: "This is my beloved Son; listen to Him." May our fasting lead us to hear, obey, and glorify Him forever. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3739 | date:2025-01-19T01:33:11 ---


--- id:3740 | date:2025-01-19T01:34:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A Reflection on the Profound Mystery of #Epiphany and #Baptism

"Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to be baptized by John." (Matthew 3:13)

Beloved in Christ, let us gather our hearts to reflect on the majestic feast of the baptism of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, celebrated on Tir 10 and 11th in the Ethiopian Orthodox tradition. This divine mystery unfolds profound lessons on humility, grace, and redemption. It reveals the unity of the Holy Trinity, the purpose of Christ's coming, and the sacred role of baptism in the spiritual journey of believers.

The Meaning and Types of Baptism

The term baptism originates from the Greek word "baptizo," meaning immersion. It signifies purification, renewal, and spiritual rebirth. The Scriptures and the traditions of the Church present eight types of baptism, five symbolic and three for believers:

Symbolic Baptisms:

Noah's Flood: The waters that cleansed the earth foreshadowed baptism’s power to purify and renew.

The Cloud and the Red Sea: Moses and the Israelites passing through these waters prefigured baptism (1 Corinthians 10:2).

Crossing the Jordan: When the priests carried the Ark across the Jordan, it symbolized the spiritual crossing into divine grace.

Jewish Ritual Cleansings: These ceremonial washings pointed toward the deeper cleansing baptism would bring.

John’s Baptism of Repentance: A call to repentance and preparation for the coming Kingdom of God.

Believers' Baptisms:

Christ’s Baptism: A unique and transformative event, revealing Christ's humility and divine mission.

The Baptism of Martyrdom: Those who bear witness to Christ with their lives partake in a baptism of ultimate sacrifice.

Tears of Repentance: A continual purification through heartfelt contrition and renewal.

The Celebration of Baptism in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tradition

The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church celebrates baptism with deep reverence and ritual significance. This feast, known as Këtëra, involves surrounding, filling, and sanctifying water in preparation for the baptismal blessing. The faithful accompany the Ark of the Covenant in processions to a baptismal site, where the Gospel is proclaimed, gifts are offered, and blessings are shared. This tradition, which began publicly during the reign of Emperor Zerayakob in the 15th century, commemorates both the historical and spiritual roots of Christ's baptism.

The Divine Encounter at the Jordan

The Lord’s baptism at the hands of Saint John the Baptist was an act of divine humility. Though Christ is pure and without sin, He submitted to baptism to fulfill righteousness and inaugurate His public ministry. The relationship between John and Jesus is marked by profound spiritual mysteries:

John was conceived and born six months before Jesus, as foretold by the angelic announcements.
Even in the womb, John leapt with joy at the presence of Christ in the Virgin Mary’s womb, recognizing Him as the divine Savior (Luke 1:43-45).

John’s mission was to prepare the way, calling people to repentance and baptizing them in anticipation of the Messiah’s coming.

When Jesus approached John to be baptized, John’s humility and awe were evident. He declared, "Behold the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world" (John 1:29). Recognizing Christ’s divine nature, he questioned, "I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?" (Matthew 3:14).

The Divine Manifestation: Unity and Trinity

At the moment of Jesus’ baptism, the heavens opened, and the Holy Trinity was revealed:

God the Father declared, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased" (Matthew 3:17).

God the Son stood humbly in the waters of the Jordan.

The Holy Spirit descended in the form of a dove, affirming Christ’s mission.

This moment marked the beginning of Christ’s public ministry, a testament to His obedience to the divine will and His role as the Redeemer of humanity.

The Humility of Christ and the Exaltation of Baptism 

Christ’s submission to baptism by John exemplifies ultimate humility:

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3741 | date:2025-01-19T01:36:01 ---
Continued ☝🏽 

The Creator was baptized by His creation.

The King of Kings bowed before a servant.

The Light of the World was immersed in earthly waters.

John, overwhelmed by this act, expressed his unworthiness with profound imagery. He questioned how he, a mortal and sinner, could touch the pure and divine body of his Creator. Yet, Christ reassured him, declaring that it was necessary to fulfill all righteousness.

The Significance of Baptism for Believers

Through His baptism, Christ sanctified the waters and instituted the sacrament as a means of spiritual rebirth. Baptism washes away the stain of sin, restores the lost glory of humanity, and marks the believer’s entry into the life of the Church. It is a mystery of profound grace, uniting the faithful with Christ in His death and resurrection.

Lessons from the Epiphany

Humility: Christ’s baptism teaches us the virtue of humility, as the sinless Savior submitted to the will of the Father.

Obedience: Both John and Christ exemplified obedience to God’s divine plan.

Unity of the Trinity: The baptism revealed the harmonious unity of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.

Redemption: The act symbolized the washing away of sin and the restoration of humanity’s divine image.

Conclusion

Beloved in Christ, let us approach the feast of Epiphany with reverence and gratitude. As we reflect on the mystery of Christ’s baptism, may we strive to emulate His humility, embrace His grace, and renew our commitment to live as children of God. Through the waters of baptism, we are not merely cleansed but are made partakers of divine glory, restored to the fullness of life in Christ. May this sacred celebration remind us of the unfathomable love and mercy of our Savior, who humbled Himself to raise us to eternal life. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3760 | date:2025-01-26T02:17:32 ---


--- id:3761 | date:2025-01-26T02:18:53 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 A Lesson on the Feast of Saint #George Celebrated on Tir 18

---
The Life and Legacy of Saint George, the Great Martyr

Beloved followers of the faith, may the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ fill your hearts and illuminate your understanding as we reflect on the profound life and witness of Saint George, a great martyr and defender of the Christian faith. The account of his life is not merely a narrative of suffering but a triumphant testament to the power of strong faith, divine intervention, and the ultimate victory of God’s truth over the forces of darkness. Let us delve deeply into this sacred story and draw lessons that will strengthen our souls.

---
1. The Early Life of Saint George

Saint George was born to noble parents. His father, Anastasius, was a prince from Cappadocia, and his mother, Theobsta, was a devout Palestinian woman. Tragedy struck early in his life as his father passed away during his childhood. Despite this loss, Saint George's life was marked by divine providence and steadfast commitment to God. At the age of twenty, he presented himself to King Dodianus to fulfill his father’s royal appointment. However, his encounter with the king set him on a different and divine path.

---
2. The Call to Faith

Upon arriving at the court of King Dodianus, Saint George was grieved by the king’s idolatry and the forced worship of false gods. In response to this corruption, Saint George made a radical decision: he renounced his earthly wealth, distributed his possessions to the poor, freed his slaves, and openly confessed his faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. His boldness in proclaiming the truth of the Gospel enraged the king, initiating a series of trials and sufferings that would test his faith and reveal God’s glory.

---
3. The Trials and Triumphs of Saint George

King Dodianus sought to sway Saint George with promises of power, wealth, and honor, but the saint refused to abandon his Lord. When bribes failed, the king resorted to unimaginable tortures:

Endurance of Pain: Saint George was subjected to excruciating physical torment, yet God miraculously healed his wounds, giving him strength to endure.

Death and Resurrection: On multiple occasions, the king attempted to execute him, but our Lord raised him from death, proving His power and reaffirming Saint George’s divine mission.

Miracles in the Midst of Suffering: Among the many miracles, Saint George survived drinking a cup of poison prepared by the magician Athanasius, who subsequently believed in Christ and became a martyr alongside thirty thousand others.

---
4. Signs and Wonders

Saint George’s unwavering faith and the power of God manifested through him caused many to believe. Notable events include:

The Blossoming of Chairs: When the kings mockingly asked Saint George to make their wooden chairs bloom, he prayed, and they miraculously blossomed, leading countless people to believe in Christ.

Raising the Dead: In a dramatic display of divine power, Saint George prayed and raised men and women from the dead, leading to their baptism and conversion.

The Tree of the Widow’s Pillar: A poor widow, who begged Saint George for mercy, witnessed a miraculous transformation of her house pillar into a flourishing tree. Through his intercession, her blind, deaf, and lame son was healed, further solidifying the faith of many.

---
5. Defeating Idolatry

The saint’s encounters with idolatrous kings revealed the impotence of false gods. In one instance, the unclean spirit residing in an idol confessed its powerlessness before Saint George and was cast into the earth. This act not only exposed the futility of idol worship but also led to the destruction of the idols and the humiliation of the king and his people.

---
6. Conversion of the Queen

The queen of Alexandria, moved by the teachings and prayers of Saint George, believed in Christ. Her newfound faith enraged King Dodianus, who ordered her execution. She willingly accepted martyrdom, receiving the crown of life and joining the heavenly assembly of saints.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3762 | date:2025-01-26T02:21:02 ---
Continued ☝🏽 

7. The Martyrdom of Saint George

Despite the many miracles, King Dodianus and his council, unable to subdue the saint’s spirit, condemned him to death by beheading. Before his execution, our Lord Jesus Christ appeared to Saint George, promising that all who commemorate his name and call upon Christ in his memory would be delivered from their troubles. This divine assurance filled Saint George with joy as he offered his life for his Savior. His body was taken to Lydda, where a church was built in his honor, and countless miracles continued to occur through his intercession.

---
8. Lessons from Saint George’s Life

The life of Saint George offers timeless lessons for every believer:

1. Faith Above All: Saint George’s refusal to compromise his faith, even in the face of death, reminds us to hold steadfastly to Christ.

2. Generosity and Sacrifice: By giving away his earthly possessions, he teaches us to value eternal treasures over worldly wealth.

3. Divine Power: His miracles demonstrate that God’s power is unmatched and that He strengthens His faithful servants in their trials.

4. Witness through Suffering: Saint George’s suffering became a testimony that led many to salvation.

5. The Triumph of Truth: The defeat of idols and the conversion of multitudes testify to the ultimate victory of God’s truth.

---
9. The Promises of Christ

As Christ promised Saint George, those who commemorate him in faith will find deliverance from their afflictions. This assurance calls us to honor the memory of this great martyr, seek his intercession, and trust in the boundless mercy of our Lord.

---
Conclusion

On this sacred day of Tir 18 we celebrate not only the life of Saint George but also the triumph of God’s grace through him. His story calls us to greater faith, deeper devotion, and a commitment to the truth of the Gospel. May his intercessions protect us from all harm, and may we, like him, boldly proclaim Christ’s glory to the ends of the earth.

In the words of our Lord Jesus Christ to Saint George: “I will erase all the sins of everyone who does your remembrance on earth, and whoever calls on me in your name in trouble... I will quickly deliver them.”

May the blessings of Saint George be upon us all!

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3768 | date:2025-02-02T00:42:26 ---


--- id:3769 | date:2025-02-02T00:45:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 About the #Holy #Communion 

👉What is the Holy Communion?

👉What is the origin and system of the Holy Communion?

👉Who founded the Holy Communion?

👉Why is the Holy Communion called a Mystery?

👉Who is worthy of the Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do before receiving Holy Communion?

👉What is the preparation we do when we receive Holy Communion?

👉What are major points we need to understand before receiving it?

👉What precautions should we take after receiving Holy Communion?

Beloved and respected, all our members who follow the orthodox education that we convey on John's Repentance page; Based on the questions on the topic above, we have sent you the important lesson below, so we entrust you all to read and learn from it.


About the Holy Communion, its Origin and the ceremony

According to the canon of our Church, the Holy Eucharist (Qurban) is one of the seven sacraments of the Church. Qurban is a Surist and Greek (Arabic) word that means blessing, gift of money, knowledge, labor and time. In the Old Testament, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called a sacrifice.
 
In the Old Testament era, the blood of animals offered by the Israelites for their sins and for the glory of God was called 'sacrifice', 'communion'.
 
But in the New Testament, communion or sacrifice means the faithful (true) sacrifice that God offered as an offering to reconcile himself with mankind. Therefore, the sacrament means the perfect body and blood of our God, Jesus Christ, our Savior, the Lamb of God.

It is our God, our Savior, Jesus Christ, who founded the sacrament of the Holy Communion. And the day he started the system is the eve of the crucifixion on Thursday. When our savior established this great system and secret, only his twelve disciples were with him, and he did not reveal it to all the people who were following him as before. This is the reason why the Church still presents it with a veil and honor. When our Lord was sacrificed on the cross, in order to cover Him, the sun was dark the moon was covered with blood and the stars dropped down like withered fruit like chilies . Even the angels of heaven dare not touch the sacrifice, for this is given only to the priests.
 
The Holy Communion is called a mystery. Our Lord Jesus Christ took the bread, blessed it, consecrated it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, "This is my flesh." Therefore, it is a great mystery that the bread is changed into the flesh of God the Son  (the flesh of God) and the wine is the blood of God the Son  (blood of God), that is why it is called the mystery. (Matthew 26:26, Mark 14:22) Even today, the priests prepare the bread only from pure wheat, and they prepare the wine only from pure grapes or raisins. When the priest blesses the bread into the flesh of God and the wine into the blood of God, the authority of the priest, the word of God, and through the action of the Holy Spirit transform the bread into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God) and the wine into the flesh of God the Son (the flesh of God). This makes the Holy Communion a mystery because it is hidden from the unbeliever, which is visible only to believers with the eyes of faith. In addition, visible service is given the secret of invisible grace.
 
Major Points that we need to understand before receiving Holy Communion
 
- We must believe without doubt that the bread and wine are changed into the body and blood of Jesus Christ. "And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and broke it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body..this is my blood, drink. (Matthew 26:26)

(Part 2 to be continued )👇

--- id:3770 | date:2025-02-02T00:45:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  2 (Cont'd)

- It is necessary to believe that the Holy Communion is given to heal the stain of sin and to heal the wound of sin. He said, "Drink of it, all of you. This is my blood of the new covenant, which is shed for many for the forgiveness of sins.'" (Matthew 26:27)

- It must be acknowledged that it leads to eternal life. "Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day" (John 6:53).
 
- All those who partake of the Holy Communion must believe that Christ is with them, that they live together with Christ, that His flesh is united with their flesh, and their blood is united with His blood, and that their God is united with them by grace. (He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives with me, and I live in him" (John 6:56).

- It is necessary to repent from past sins, confess, return and guard against future sins. "After that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God." (Mark 1:14) The Kingdom of God refers to His Holy Body and His Precious Blood.
 
- There is no age limit for receiving Holy Communion. From the day we were baptized on the 40th and 80th day after birth, where by we become being children of God and received the Holy Communion, we should not stay away from the Holy Communion since then until the end of our lives. It is a great mistake to think of youth as sinfulness in itself or a life unfit for the sacrament, and to think that we should  receive only in infancy and youth. There is no set age for approaching the Holy Communion and not approaching. The only thing that keeps us away from the Holy Communion is if we are highly involved in a particular sin and that we still do now and then being unable stop it. We should take a gap and and make sure to be committed to stop that particular sin first.  Unbelief should not be admitted to sin without repentance. "And now, says the Lord, return to me with all your hearts, fasting, weeping and wailing" (Acts 2:12).
 
 
- Husband and wife should receive Holy Communion together at the first time. If a husband and wife have not received the sacrament together before, it is not allowed for them to receive it separately or one side alone. But after they once received it together, they have already confirmed their unity in flesh and spirit, they can be receive separately. 
 
- In general, because our salvation Jesus Christ died for all, it is a wrong attitude to take the difference between married and single, race, color, sex and age. A person should live by receiving Holy Communion from his childhood until he gets married, when he gets married (together with his husband/wife), and after marriage until his death.
 
Points We  Need to know upon Preparation to receive Holy Communion
 
 
1.       Prepare with absolute faith. We should believe that what we receive is the holy body and precious blood of our Lord, who died on the cross of Calvary on Friday for the world's salvation. In addition, we should strengthned our belive saying to our self :- " I will find forgiveness through repentance for the sins I committed; I will find the strength to be protected from future sins, Christ is in me and I will live in Christ, I will find eternal salvation, I will be protected from a sick body and a sick soul." Saying this, we need to prepare with complete faith and always repent from sin before being anointed and prepare to receive it with faith.
 
(Part 2 to be continued)👇

--- id:3771 | date:2025-02-02T00:45:02 ---
About the Holy Communion 

Part  3 (Cont'd)

2.       If those receiving Holy Communion are married, they should abstain from sexual intercourse for 3 days before receiving Holy Communion. Sexual intercourse on permitted days in marriage is not a sin, but since it is an act of the flesh , so this period is also one of the forbidden days in terms of giving respect to the sacrament.
 
3.       Anyone who repents and is freed from his sins should keep his heart away from revenge and his body away from wrongdoing.

4.       In order to receive Holy Communion, one should fast for 18 hours without food and water, and wait until the feeling of food being removed from the stomach.

5.       If one sees inappropriate dreams, they will not receive Holy Communion that day. Also, if there is bleeding on anypart of a body, bleeding wound,  or if vomited, or if flys like a mosquito bite entered our the mouth or nose, it is not possible to receive on that day.

6. On the eve of the day we plan to receive Holy Communion, we should take a bath and clean what we wear.

7. Before starting the mass, it is necessary to attend the church and properly follow /consecrate the mass. We should be present before Liturgy starts, and ideally attend the services before that as well. 

8. A woman should  not receive until 7th days of her menstruation. Then she washes her body and can receives on the 8th day or after then. Also at the time of childbirth she does not receive it until he day of the Christening of the child. "If a woman gives birth, it means 80 days, if she gives birth to a boy, it means 40 days" (Leviticus 12:1-5)

Points we need to know when we present at Church to receive Holy Communion

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3772 | date:2025-02-04T00:30:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Causes of Marital Dissolution: A Lesson on the Perils that Threaten Holy #Matrimony

Beloved followers of the sacred teachings, let us approach this lesson with hearts open to wisdom and ears attuned to divine counsel. For marriage, a union consecrated by God, stands as a fortress against the tempests of life; yet many find their sacred bonds shattered. Why do these unions fail? What causes this holy covenant to be dissolved? With the light of scripture and the guidance of the Fathers, let us examine the roots of this grievous affliction.

1. The Temptation of the Enemy, the Devil

The adversary of mankind, the ancient serpent, prowls as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. The bonds of matrimony are no exception to his malice. He ensnares the flesh, whispers deception into hearts, and casts venomous doubts upon the minds of even the devout. As the Apostle Peter has warned us:

“Be sober-minded and watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour.” (1 Peter 5:8)

Satan’s stratagem is subtle, yet ruinous. He fans the flames of lust, fuels discord, and sows strife in hearts that once burned with love. Even those who walk in the path of repentance may find themselves tempted and their marriage under siege.

2. The Weakness of the Self

Weakness of the heart, failure to cultivate a forgiving spirit, and the unchecked desires of the flesh lead many into peril. As the Apostle James has taught:

“Let no one say when he is tempted, ‘I am being tempted by God,’ for God cannot be tempted with evil, and He Himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death.” (James 1:13-15)

Indeed, within the heart lies the root of many troubles. Desires unchecked turn to envy; envy begets strife; strife erupts into division. Couples must guard against self-centered longings and foster a spirit of self-sacrifice, lest their own hearts betray them.

“You desire and do not have; so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain; so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask.” (James 4:1-3)

Neglect of prayer, praying with selfish intent, and failing to seek what is good rather than what is self-serving also contribute to the collapse of marriages.

3. The Distance Between Husband and Wife

Marriage is a union, a sacred bond in which two become one flesh (Ephesians 5:31). Distance, both physical and emotional, weakens this sacred union. When work or other obligations separate husband and wife for prolonged periods, temptation enters like an unguarded thief. The wind of division blows, sowing seeds of misunderstanding and isolation.

The wisdom of Ecclesiastes teaches us:

“If one falls, the other will lift him up. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has not another to lift him up!” (Ecclesiastes 4:10)

Physical separation can result in spiritual separation, wherein neither shares in the life and love of the other. Such an arrangement is perilous, for it denies the very essence of the marriage bond.

4. Rushing into Marriage Without True Knowledge of One Another

Foolish is the one who enters marriage hastily, without understanding the character of their spouse. When infatuation blinds the eyes, when passion overcomes wisdom, many find themselves lamenting, “I did not know, I did not understand.”

Though no man or woman is without fault, a fundamental knowledge of each other’s virtues and weaknesses is essential. Without it, trials arise, and the marriage stands upon a weak foundation, easily shattered by the storms of life.

5. Marrying Without Considering the Third Party

Marriage is not an isolated matter; it extends beyond the couple to the family, the Church, and future generations. Many fail to consider the responsibilities marriage brings:

The call to bear and raise children.

The need to honor and support parents.

The obligations towards extended family and community.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3773 | date:2025-02-04T00:33:01 ---
Continued ☝🏽

Conflicts arise when one spouse desires children and the other does not, or when financial struggles lead to blame and resentment. Many forget the sacred vow to endure together through all trials, and when wealth, beauty, or status decline, love diminishes, and separation follows.

6. Marrying for Wealth Rather Than Love

Marriage founded upon wealth is built upon sand. When wealth fades, so does affection, and division takes root. The Savior has warned:

“How difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God!” (Mark 10:23)

True love does not rest upon gold or silver, for these are fleeting. Rather, it endures in humility, in patience, and in devotion to the Lord. A marriage bound by riches alone is doomed to collapse when the treasury is emptied.

7. Lack of Trust

Trust is the cornerstone of every godly marriage. When suspicion arises, when one spies upon the other, when accusations replace understanding, discord is near. The whisper of jealousy and the shadow of doubt poison the union.

If a husband or wife acts in secrecy—even with good intent—it can sow distrust. What is hidden, though harmless, breeds questions. And where questions grow unchecked, division follows.

“A house divided against itself cannot stand.” (Mark 3:25)

Lack of trust is not unique to men or women alone. Both must labor to remove all causes of suspicion, for once trust is lost, love itself may soon follow.

Conclusion: Guarding the Sacred Union

Beloved, the union of marriage is not merely a human contract but a divine covenant. It must be protected against the snares of the enemy, the weaknesses of the flesh, and the storms of worldly trials. Let husbands and wives be vigilant, let them pray without ceasing, and let them cultivate love through patience and sacrifice.

For the Lord, who joined them, is ever ready to sustain them if they walk in His ways. May He grant wisdom, endurance, and love to all who enter this holy bond, that they may remain steadfast until the end. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3821 | date:2025-02-06T20:38:26 ---


--- id:3822 | date:2025-02-06T20:38:26 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽 The Life of a Husband and Wife: A Divine Union in Love and Harmony #Matrimony

Beloved brethren in Christ, those who seek the wisdom of the Church and the guidance of the Holy Scriptures, let us incline our hearts toward the sacred mystery of marriage, which is established by the hand of God Himself. For as the Lord, in His boundless love, formed Eve from Adam’s side, so too does He unite man and woman in a bond that is holy, immutable, and full of grace.

One Mind, One Heart, One Will

The life of a husband and wife is not one of discord but of unity. They are called to live with one mind, one heart, and a common will. Their steps must be guided by mutual counsel, and their hearts must beat in harmony, reflecting the perfect union found in Christ and His Church. As the Apostle teaches, “Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the Church” (Ephesians 5:22-23). And likewise, “Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the Church and gave Himself up for her” (Ephesians 5:25).

This is not a submission of servitude, nor a love that seeks dominion, but a harmony wherein each gives of themselves fully to the other. The wife’s obedience is one of trust and love, just as the Church submits to Christ, and the husband’s love is sacrificial, just as Christ laid down His life for His people.

A Covenant of Mutual Respect and Sacrifice

Marriage is a covenant wherein there is neither superiority nor inferiority, but a sacred bond where both husband and wife serve one another. The husband does not rule as a tyrant, nor does the wife exist as a subject, but rather, they are yoked together in Christ, bearing one another’s burdens with humility and grace. “A husband should give up his body for his wife, and a wife for her husband, to the point of suffering.” This is love: not in word only, but in deed and in truth.

Their love is to be an example to their children, a radiant light that teaches by action more than by words. They must walk in righteousness, both within their home and beyond its walls, so that their offspring may see the beauty of Christian life and follow in their footsteps.

The Divine Institution of Marriage

Marriage is not a mere human agreement but a divine institution. It is pure and undefiled, established from the very beginning by God Himself, who said, “It is not good for man to be alone; let us make for him a helper suitable for him” (Genesis 2:18). Thus, He created one man for one woman, and one woman for one man, binding them together in a union that is blessed and sanctified. To transgress this divine order by introducing another spouse is to defile the sanctity of marriage and to sin against God’s holy design.

On the day of their marriage, the husband and wife stand before God and swear an oath that neither sickness nor hardship, neither poverty nor affliction, shall separate them. Their love must not be fickle nor their commitment conditional, for “what God has joined together, let no man separate” (Mark 10:9). If they hold steadfast to this vow, their household will be built upon a firm foundation, unshaken by the tempests of life.

The Virtue of Love: The Foundation of a Lasting Marriage

A marriage rooted in Christ does not falter at every trial, nor does it crumble under the weight of worldly burdens. Rather, it is fortified by the love that St. Paul describes: “Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud. It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seeking, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres” (1 Corinthians 13:4-7).

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3836 | date:2025-02-06T20:39:01 ---
Continued ☝🏽 

Let husbands and wives remember that love is not merely a feeling but a virtue, an action, a choice made daily. Love calls for patience in times of conflict, kindness in times of distress, and endurance when trials arise. A Christian couple does not hastily seek separation, nor do they harbor resentment, but rather, they seek understanding and reconciliation, just as Christ reconciled the Church unto Himself.

Marriage as a Fortress of Faith

A household built upon the Word of God stands firm against the storms of life. Our Lord has declared: “Everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock. The rain came down, the streams rose, and the winds blew and beat against that house; yet it did not fall, because it had its foundation on the rock” (Matthew 7:24-25).

So too must a Christian marriage be built upon the unshakable foundation of God’s truth. A husband and wife who live by Scripture will find that their marriage is strengthened, their love deepened, and their trials overcome by the power of divine grace.

The Sacredness of the Marriage Bed

Marriage is honorable, and the marriage bed is undefiled. This is a sacred union, meant to be kept pure and holy. The body of the husband belongs to the wife, and the body of the wife belongs to the husband. To defile this bond through infidelity is a grievous sin, for it is a rejection of the trust and love that God has ordained between them. Let them remain faithful to one another, guarding their hearts from temptation and their eyes from wandering, for “the two shall become one flesh” (Mark 10:8).

Conclusion: The Glory of Christian Marriage

Brethren, let us hold marriage in honor, recognizing it as a divine gift, a path to sanctification, and a mirror of Christ’s love for His Church. Let husbands cherish their wives as Christ cherishes His bride, and let wives honor their husbands as the Church honors the Lord. In doing so, they shall be a light to the world, a testimony of God’s grace, and an example of the beauty that is found in holy matrimony.

May the ever-giving Lord bless all Christian marriages, strengthening them in faith, love, and perseverance. May the Virgin Mother intercede for all families, and may the Glorious Cross be their shelter and stronghold in all seasons of life.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3837 | date:2025-02-07T21:15:31 ---


--- id:3838 | date:2025-02-07T21:17:02 ---
👉👉👉How Should One Live After Reaching #Adulthood : #Marriage or #monasticism 

Dear beloved followers of the Orthodox faith, greetings in the name of our Lord. Today, we bring you an important teaching concerning how one ought to live after reaching the stage of Adam and Eve—that is, adulthood. This guidance is drawn from the Holy Scriptures and the wisdom of the Church Fathers, and we urge all to read with diligence and understanding.

The Church, in its divine wisdom, teaches that upon reaching adulthood, a person has before them two sacred paths: marriage or monasticism. These are not merely lifestyle choices but divinely instituted ways of life, each with its own blessings, responsibilities, and spiritual rewards.

The Path of Monasticism

Monasticism is a life wholly devoted to God, set apart from the world and its distractions. The word “monk” signifies one who lives in solitude, a virgin who has renounced the pleasures of the flesh, a member of a monastery, detached from worldly concerns such as wealth, ambition, and the affairs of the public. This sacred calling is open to both men and women, as it is a life of full dedication to the Creator.

Our Lord Jesus Christ Himself spoke of this path. When He taught about the law of marriage, His disciples, realizing the weight of its obligations, responded, saying:

“If this is the situation between a husband and a wife, it is better not to marry.”

To this, Christ replied:

“Not everyone can accept this word, but only those to whom it has been given.” (Matthew 19:11)

Thus, the Lord made clear that celibacy is not for all but is a special calling, a gift given to some for the sake of the Kingdom of Heaven. He further elaborated:

“There are eunuchs who were born that way from their mother’s womb, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by others, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the Kingdom of Heaven. Let anyone accept this who can.” (Matthew 19:12)

This divine statement reveals three categories of those who live without engaging in sexual relations:

1. Those born as eunuchs – These are individuals who, from birth, lack the natural inclination or capacity for marital relations.


2. Those made eunuchs by others – In some cultures and histories, there were those who, through human intervention, were physically altered to become eunuchs.


3. Those who have chosen celibacy for the Kingdom of Heaven – These are the ones who, out of devotion to God, voluntarily renounce marriage and sexual relations to serve the Lord with an undivided heart.



This last category, those who choose celibacy for the sake of Heaven, forms the foundation of monasticism. It is a holy and exalted calling, freeing the individual from worldly distractions and allowing them to focus entirely on God.

The Teaching of St. Paul on Celibacy

The great Apostle Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit, also spoke on this matter, affirming that celibacy is preferable for those who can accept it:

“I wish that all of you were as I am. But each of you has your own gift from God; one has this gift, another has that.” (1 Corinthians 7:7)

Here, Paul acknowledges that not all are given the grace of celibacy, just as our Lord said: “Let him who can accept it, accept it.”

He further explains:

“I want you to be free from concerns. The unmarried man is concerned with the things of the Lord—how he may please the Lord. But the married man is concerned with the affairs of this world—how he may please his wife—and his interests are divided.” (1 Corinthians 7:32-34)

In this, we see the great wisdom of St. Paul. The unmarried person can devote their whole heart and life to God, while the married person, though also walking in holiness, must divide their attention between their spiritual duties and the responsibilities of family life.

Thus, St. Paul, in his general teaching, advises that if one can remain unmarried and devoted solely to God, it is better to do so, so that the heart may remain undivided and steadfast in the Lord.

continues 👇🏽

--- id:3839 | date:2025-02-07T21:19:02 ---
Continued ☝🏽

The Path of Marriage
While monasticism is a high and noble calling, marriage is also a divine institution, blessed by God from the beginning. It was established in paradise itself, when God created Eve for Adam, declaring:

“It is not good for man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him.” (Genesis 2:18)

Marriage is a sacred covenant, a means of sanctification through love, sacrifice, and fidelity. Just as Christ loves the Church, so must a husband love his wife, and just as the Church is devoted to Christ, so must a wife be devoted to her husband (Ephesians 5:22-25). In marriage, the two become one flesh, bearing children and raising them in the fear of God.

Yet, marriage comes with its own struggles and challenges, which is why both Christ and St. Paul warn that those who choose this path must do so with full awareness of its responsibilities.

Conclusion

Thus, upon reaching adulthood, a person stands before two paths—both blessed by God but each requiring a distinct calling.

1. The monastic life – A path of complete devotion to God, free from worldly distractions, chosen by those who can accept it for the sake of the Kingdom of Heaven.

2. The married life – A sacred union, established by God, in which man and woman become one, bearing children and walking together in faith.

Both paths lead to holiness, but each must be undertaken with the fear of God, wisdom, and a pure heart. The choice between them is not to be made lightly but with deep prayer and discernment, seeking the will of the Lord.

May God grant wisdom to all who stand at this crossroads, that they may choose the path that leads to their sanctification and ultimate union with Christ.

To Him be glory, now and forever. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3844 | date:2025-02-08T20:42:02 ---


--- id:3845 | date:2025-02-08T20:43:02 ---
👉👉👉The Sacred Foundations of Marriage: A Lesson on the Life of Couples Before Marriage

Dear faithful, greetings in the name of our Lord. As we reflect upon the divine wisdom entrusted to us through the Holy Scriptures and the teachings of the Church, let us consider the sacred path that leads to marriage. Marriage is not a light or common thing, but a covenant ordained by God. Yet, it is not a necessity for all; rather, it is a calling for those who seek it according to the will of the Almighty.

Marriage as a Calling, Not a Compulsion

Marriage is a purposeful order established by God, but it is not forced upon anyone. As Saint Paul teaches, “Each has his own gift from God, one in this way, another in that way… as he was called, so let each one live” (1 Cor. 7:7-20). If a person has the strength and grace to overcome the temptations of the flesh, he is not bound to marry. The same applies to women. It is a matter of personal choice and divine calling. The great King himself has said, “If you do not want to marry a wife, do not marry a wife.”

Yet, for those who desire marriage, it is not something to be entered into thoughtlessly or carelessly. One must first examine whether there exist any impediments that would make marriage unsuitable or unlawful.

Conditions That Prohibit Marriage

The Church, in her wisdom, has set forth conditions under which marriage is not permitted. These include:

1. Physical or Natural  – If a person suffers from an ailment or natural condition that prevents the fulfillment of marital duties, this must be known beforehand. A marriage built in ignorance of such matters may give rise to strife and resentment.


2. Prior Vows of Purity – If one has made a solemn vow to remain celibate for the sake of the Kingdom of Heaven, such a promise is not to be broken.


3. Differences in Faith – Marriage between a believer and an unbeliever is not permissible. Even if there is love between them, the unbeliever must first convert and receive baptism before marriage can be considered.


4. Close Blood Relations – Marriage between relatives within seven generations is strictly prohibited. This law is not only for the preservation of bodily health but also for the purity of spiritual ties within the family.



The Prerequisites for Marriage

Before a man and a woman agree to enter into marriage, they must first examine their compatibility according to the wisdom of the Church.

Faith – They must share the same faith so that their household may be built upon a firm foundation. The unity of belief strengthens the bond of love.

Love and Mutual Consent – A marriage that is forced or undertaken without true affection is destined for sorrow. The man and the woman must love each other in truth and purity.

The Blessing of the Family – The approval of parents or guardians is a divine safeguard, ensuring that the marriage is entered into with wisdom and prudence.


Marriage is not merely the union of two individuals but of two families. Just as a building must be set upon a firm foundation, so must marriage be established upon the blessings and prayers of those who have gone before.

The Right Time for Marriage

Wisdom teaches that youth is full of passion, and those who marry too early may later regret their decision. Marriage should not be rushed in the heat of youthful desire. If one enters into it before reaching maturity, the responsibilities of family life may become a burden rather than a joy. The Church, therefore, sets an appropriate age for marriage: twenty or twenty-five years for men, and fifteen or eighteen years for women.

A great evil arises when those who are not yet ready for marriage are hastily joined together. Immaturity may lead them to break their vows, to struggle with the raising of children, or even to fall into grievous sins such as abortion. Therefore, let all who seek marriage consider first whether they have reached the fullness of age and understanding.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3846 | date:2025-02-08T20:45:01 ---
Continued ☝🏽 

The Preparation for Marriage
If we are to live together in holy matrimony according to God’s will, we must prepare ourselves through:

Reading the Holy Scriptures – So that we may understand God’s design for marriage.

Fasting and Prayer – To discipline the body and purify the soul.

Receiving the Holy Mysteries – The Eucharist strengthens us against temptation and sanctifies our union.


If there are those who, though desiring marriage, delay out of fear of public opinion, let them cast aside such worldly concerns. “But if a woman has reached the age of marriage and is ashamed of her virginity, let her do what she wants. And if she does marry, she has not sinned” (1 Cor. 7:36). It is better to marry in the fear of God than to remain unmarried for the sake of the opinions of men.

The Period of Engagement

Engagement is not yet marriage. It is a time of discernment and preparation, a pledge of future union but not yet the fulfillment thereof. It is a sacred time when the couple must guard their purity and avoid falling into sin.

The steps of engagement are as follows:

1. The couple must first inform their pastor and seek his blessing.


2. They must then declare their intention to their parents or guardians.


3. Only after these steps is the engagement established.



During this time, the couple must remember that engagement is not a license for marital relations. The body must be kept in purity until the sacrament of marriage is completed.

The Wisdom of the Church in Setting Order

The Church, in her divine wisdom, has set forth laws concerning engagement and marriage, ensuring that they are conducted in an orderly and righteous manner. Among these laws, we find:

The necessity of mutual consent.

The importance of an appropriate age difference to prevent discord.

The prohibition of marriages within seven generations to safeguard both physical and spiritual well-being.


When these divine principles are followed, marriage becomes a blessing and a path to salvation. But when they are neglected, the union may become a source of strife, sorrow, and even separation.

Conclusion: The Sacredness of Marriage

Marriage is not a matter to be taken lightly. It is a divine covenant, a sacred mystery, a union blessed by God. Let those who seek it do so in wisdom, in purity, and in faith. Let them prepare their hearts and their minds, so that when the time comes, they may enter into this holy estate with joy and righteousness.

May the Lord, who established the first marriage in Eden, grant wisdom and guidance to all who seek His will. May the intercession of the Most Holy Virgin and the power of the Cross be with us all, now and forever. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3849 | date:2025-02-09T19:34:14 ---


--- id:3850 | date:2025-02-09T19:40:27 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The Fasting of #Nineveh: A Lesson in Divine Mercy and Repentance

Beloved brethren in Christ, let us set our hearts upon the wisdom of the Holy Fathers and open our ears to the sacred teachings that have been passed down through generations. In contemplating the Fasting of Nineveh, we do not merely look upon an ancient event, but we witness the unchanging nature of God's mercy and justice, a lesson for all who have ears to hear and hearts to repent.

The Origin of the Fasting of Nineveh

In the sacred canons of our Holy Mother, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, there are seven fasts ordained for the faithful. Among them, the Fasting of Nineveh holds a place of great significance, calling to mind the repentance of an entire city that turned away from its wickedness and sought the mercy of the Almighty. This fast is observed on the tenth day of the year, a time set apart for deep reflection, contrition, and the seeking of divine favor.

Nineveh: The Great City of Old

The city of Nineveh, a name written upon the pages of sacred history, was established by the mighty hunter Nimrod upon the banks of the Tigris River. This city, magnificent in its splendor and strong in its might, is described in the Scriptures as a place of great renown.

The walls of Nineveh stretched for twelve kilometers, encircling a city adorned with palaces, temples, and markets. It was the heart of the Assyrian Empire, much like Oslo, Addis Ababa, or Stockholm in our modern times—an imperial city that commanded the affairs of nations.

But let us not forget, brethren, that Nineveh was not only known for its greatness in power but also for its greatness in transgression. For the Assyrians, descendants of Shem’s son Asshur (Genesis 10:22), had walked the path of wickedness, and their sins had risen as a stench before the throne of God.

The Assyrian Empire and Its Fate

Nineveh stood as the jewel of the Assyrian Empire, a nation that reached the pinnacle of its strength and expanded its dominion far and wide. The empire, in its might, conquered the northern kingdom of Israel and later even took King Manasseh of Judah captive, leading him to Babylon. Yet, in the providence of God, Jerusalem was not utterly destroyed, for the Lord had set His name upon that holy city.

In the days of King Hezekiah, the Assyrians, in their pride, raised their hand against the people of God and provoked the Most High to wrath. The might of human armies is as dust before the breath of the Lord, and so it was that in a single night, the angel of the Lord struck down 185,000 Assyrian soldiers. The morning light revealed the truth—where there was once the clamor of a great army, now lay only the silence of death. (2 Kings 19:35)

Sennacherib, the proud king of Assyria, who had boasted against the living God, fled to his city of Nineveh, where his own sons would later strike him down, fulfilling the judgment of the Almighty.

Yet Nineveh, despite its strength and power, could not stand against the judgment of God. In the year 612 B.C., the city was captured and destroyed by the Babylonian Empire, its glory turned to dust, and its walls reduced to rubble. Thus did the mighty fall, and thus did the words of the prophets come to pass.

The Significance of the Fast

Beloved, why do we fast the Fast of Nineveh? Is it not to remember the mercy of God? Is it not to recall that no sin is too great to be forgiven when true repentance is found in the heart of man?

The people of Nineveh, though steeped in wickedness, humbled themselves before the Lord. When Jonah, the reluctant prophet, preached in their streets, they did not harden their hearts, but they tore their garments, put on sackcloth, and fasted, from the least to the greatest. Even the king rose from his throne, covered himself in ashes, and decreed a fast for all. And what did God do? In His infinite compassion, He turned away His wrath and spared them.

Continues👇🏽

--- id:3851 | date:2025-02-09T19:40:27 ---
Continued👆🏽

Thus, my brethren, the Fasting of Nineveh stands as a testament to the boundless mercy of our Lord. It is a call to every soul burdened by sin to repent, to seek the Lord while He may be found, and to humble oneself before His mighty hand. Let us not be as those who trust in their strength, nor as those who boast in their wisdom, for the Lord brings the mighty low and exalts the humble.

To Him be the glory, to the Virgin be honor, and to the Cross be eternal praise!

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3884 | date:2025-02-13T00:15:57 ---


--- id:3885 | date:2025-02-13T00:16:05 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Sacred Mystery of #Marriage: A Biblical Perspective #Matrimony

Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ, peace be with you. Today, we turn our hearts to the divine mystery of marriage as revealed in Holy Scripture. Let us reflect deeply on this sacred union, ordained by God from the very foundation of creation, and let us grasp its profound significance for our salvation.

The Divine Institution of Marriage

From the very beginning, God established marriage as a sacred bond between man and woman. After forming Adam from the dust of the earth and breathing into him the breath of life, God saw that something was missing. “It is not good for the man to be alone” (Gen. 2:18). And so, from Adam’s own side, He fashioned Eve, not from his head that she might rule over him, nor from his feet that she might be trampled under him, but from his rib, that she might be at his side—his equal, his helper, his companion.

Upon beholding her, Adam declared with joy, “This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man” (Gen. 2:23). Thus, God established an eternal principle: “A man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh” (Gen. 2:24). Marriage, therefore, is not a human contract but a divine ordinance, a mystery in which two are joined together by God Himself.

The unity of man and woman in marriage is so profound that our Lord Jesus Christ affirmed, “They are no longer two, but one flesh” (Matt. 19:6). This is not mere poetry or metaphor—it is the very fabric of reality, woven by the Creator Himself. And because it is God who joins them, let no man dare to separate what He has united.

The Role of Husband and Wife in the Light of Christ

The Apostle Paul, the great teacher of the Church, expounds upon the mystery of marriage in his epistles. In 1 Corinthians 7:1 and Ephesians 5:22-33, he reveals to us the divine structure of a godly marriage.

The Role of the Wife: Submission in the Lord

“Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord” (Eph. 5:22). This word—submission—is often misunderstood by those who do not know the ways of God. It does not mean servitude or inferiority, but rather a willing and loving deference, just as the Church submits to Christ. The wife, in her submission, mirrors the obedience of the Church to her Lord, trusting in the wisdom and love of her husband.

But let us be clear: this is not the submission of a slave to a master. Eve was created to be a “helper” to Adam (Gen. 2:20), and this word in Hebrew, ezer, means one who strengthens, supports, and surrounds. Just as the Church strengthens and completes Christ’s work on earth, so too does the wife complete her husband. She is his equal in dignity, his partner in life, and his co-heir in the Kingdom.

The Role of the Husband: Christlike Love

If the wife is called to submit, the husband is called to an even greater duty: “Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for her” (Eph. 5:25). Consider the weight of this command. Christ loved the Church unto death, suffering humiliation, bearing the cross, shedding His blood for her salvation. Likewise, a husband must lay down his life for his wife—not merely in death, but in daily self-sacrifice, in patience, in kindness, in unwavering faithfulness.

A husband’s love is not tyrannical, nor is it indifferent. It is a love that cherishes, that nourishes, that sanctifies. “He who loves his wife loves himself” (Eph. 5:28), for just as Christ and the Church are one, so too are husband and wife. No man hates his own flesh; rather, he cares for it, protects it, and seeks its well-being. So too must a husband care for his wife.

Marriage as a Reflection of Christ and the Church

Marriage is not merely a social institution; it is a sacred icon, a living representation of the mystery of Christ and His Church. “For this reason, a man leaves his father and mother and is united to his wife, and the two become one flesh” (Eph. 5:31).

Continues👇🏽

--- id:3886 | date:2025-02-13T00:19:01 ---
Continued 👆🏽

Paul then unveils the great mystery: “This is a profound mystery—but I am talking about Christ and the Church” (Eph. 5:32).

What does this mean? Just as Christ is the Bridegroom and the Church His spotless Bride, so too is marriage a reflection of this divine union. When a husband loves his wife as Christ loves the Church, and when a wife submits to her husband as the Church submits to Christ, their marriage becomes a holy testimony to the world. It becomes a beacon of divine love, an earthly mirror of the heavenly reality.

The Orthodox Marriage: Christ at the Center

A truly biblical marriage is one where Christ reigns as the head. He is the foundation upon which the couple builds their home, the anchor that holds them firm in the storms of life. When a husband and wife submit themselves to God’s design, their marriage flourishes—not because of human effort, but because divine grace sustains them.

Marriage is not about personal happiness alone. It is about holiness, about self-giving love, about the journey to salvation. It is a path to sanctification, a means through which God refines us, teaching us patience, humility, and the sacrificial love that leads to eternal life.

Conclusion: The Call to a Holy Marriage

Beloved brethren, let us not take lightly the sacred mystery of marriage. It is a covenant, sealed by God Himself. Let husbands love their wives with the love of Christ, and let wives honor their husbands as unto the Lord. Let them walk together in faith, seeking always the will of God, and let their union be a testament to the divine love that binds Christ and His Church.

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the intercessions of the Holy Theotokos, and the power of the life-giving Cross strengthen all Christian marriages, that they may shine as beacons of God’s love in this world.

Glory be to God, now and forever! Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3890 | date:2025-02-15T09:45:02 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽#Marriage and #Attitude: A Christian Perspective

Beloved followers of the Orthodox teachings, may the grace and peace of our Lord be with you. Today, we reflect on an essential lesson—one that is foundational to a joyful and enduring marriage. The key to harmony between husband and wife is not found in wealth, status, or even outward gestures of love, but in the attitude they cultivate toward one another, toward life itself, and ultimately toward God.

The Power of Attitude in Marriage

Attitude is the unseen force that shapes the way a husband and wife see each other, the way they understand their roles, and how they respond to the trials that inevitably arise. A heart filled with gratitude and humility will make marriage a dwelling place of peace; a heart filled with pride and selfishness will turn it into a battlefield.

A husband who sees his wife as a partner given by God will cherish her with love and devotion, just as Christ loves His Church.

But if he regards her as a rival, a mere servant to his needs, his heart will grow hardened with pride, anger, and even hatred.


Likewise:

A wife who recognizes her husband as a blessing from the Lord, dedicating herself to loving him and their family with a sacrificial heart, will radiate warmth, support, and self-giving love.

But if she sees him as an oppressor, resentment will take root, growing into bitterness and, in time, into outright hostility.


Marriage is not simply a contract; it is a divine calling. When both husband and wife acknowledge this truth and see themselves as children of God, entrusted with carrying out His plan, their hearts will be drawn closer to Him and to each other. A home filled with such faith will be a place of refuge, a sanctuary of love, and a small church where Christ is honored.

The Consequence of a Materialistic Attitude

If a couple sets their hearts on money, possessions, and worldly gain, their attitude toward each other and their circumstances will be poisoned by selfishness and greed. Love will be replaced by rivalry, and instead of serving one another, they will begin to use each other. But if they see their marriage as a means to manifest God’s love—not only within their household but to all people—they will cultivate a spirit of service and generosity. Their home will become a dwelling place of God, where He is glorified through their love and hospitality.

The Role of Perspective in Overcoming Challenges

Every marriage will encounter challenges—this is inevitable. But what matters is how these challenges are faced. The thoughts, visions, and values that shape our perspective determine whether we find joy and fulfillment or sink into despair and frustration.

If a spouse carries a negative outlook, believing the worst in situations and in people, the solution is not to fight fire with fire.

Responding to negativity with more negativity is like pouring oil on flames. It does not resolve conflict but deepens it.


Instead, we are called to respond with patience, prayer, and a joyful heart. Do not allow yourself to be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good (Romans 12:21). This is not merely a command but a spiritual law: the one who retaliates with anger is not only harming their spouse but also losing their peace with God.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3891 | date:2025-02-15T09:48:02 ---
Continued 👆🏽

 A Final Exhortation

To those who are married, and to those preparing for marriage, know this: your attitude is the soil in which your love will either flourish or wither. If you cultivate an attitude of gratitude, humility, and faith, your marriage will be a source of unshakable joy. If you allow pride, selfishness, and resentment to take root, no amount of external effort will save it.

Therefore, examine your hearts, shape your perspectives through prayer, and build your marriage upon the firm foundation of Christ. In doing so, you will not only experience peace in your own home but will reflect the love of God to the world.

Glory to God, the Ever-Born Virgin, and the Glorious Cross!

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3893 | date:2025-02-17T08:54:53 ---


--- id:3894 | date:2025-02-17T08:56:07 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The #Biblical Teaching on #Friendship: A Reflection in the Spirit of John Chrysostom

Part 1

Beloved brethren, who seek the wisdom of God and the righteousness of His ways, may the peace of our Lord be upon you. Today, let us reflect on the divine teaching of friendship as illuminated by the Holy Scriptures, so that we may discern between those friendships that lead to life and those that bring destruction.

The sacred pages of the Bible present to us two striking examples of companionship: one radiant with virtue, and the other tainted by wickedness. These accounts are not mere historical recollections but divine lessons written for our edification, that we may walk in the path of righteousness and guard our souls against the snares of the enemy.

The Friendship of David and Jonathan: A Bond of Righteousness
Among the most blessed friendships in the history of mankind is that of David and Jonathan, a companionship fashioned in purity, selflessness, and divine love. Jonathan, the son of Saul, saw in David not a rival, nor a threat to his own inheritance, but a man chosen by God. Though his father, King Saul, was consumed with envy and sought to destroy David, Jonathan did not partake in his father’s malice. Instead, his soul was bound to David's in a covenant of love, so pure and unshaken that it reflected the very love with which God loves His children.

The Holy Scriptures declare:

"Jonathan's soul was bound up in David's soul, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul, and he made a covenant with David because he loved him" (1 Sam. 18:10-15; 1 Sam. 19:1-5).

Such a friendship is rare upon the earth, for it is not founded upon selfish gain, nor upon fleeting pleasures, but upon truth and virtue. Jonathan risked his own safety, defied his father’s wrath, and placed himself in peril—all for the sake of his friend, whom he loved as his own soul. He interceded for David before his father, seeking to preserve his life rather than betray him for the sake of power or advantage.

This is the essence of true friendship: to seek not our own gain but the good of the other; to love not with words alone but with deeds; to stand beside our friends in times of peril, even at great cost to ourselves. Such friendships are born not of the flesh but of the Spirit, and they reflect the love of Christ, who laid down His life for us.

The Deception of Jonadab: A Friendship of Wickedness
But, brethren, not all friendships are alike. Just as there exists companionship that leads to life, so too is there friendship that leads to destruction. The Scriptures present to us the tragic example of Amnon and Jonadab.

Amnon, a son of David, was consumed with an unlawful passion for his own sister, Tamar. Instead of resisting this sinful desire and seeking the counsel of the righteous, he turned to his friend Jonadab, a man of cunning but devoid of virtue. Rather than rebuking Amnon, warning him of the wrath of God, or guiding him towards repentance, Jonadab, with deceitful lips and a heart filled with iniquity, instructed him in evil.

By Jonadab’s wicked counsel, Amnon defiled his sister, an act that led not only to her ruin but to his own destruction at the hands of Absalom (2 Sam. 13:1-39). Here, we see the friendship of the ungodly: not one that edifies, but one that corrupts; not one that leads to life, but one that brings death. Jonadab was not a friend but a deceiver, an agent of the adversary, whispering lies and leading his companion into the pit of destruction.

Beware, therefore, of such men, for they are not friends but executioners of the soul. They speak soothing words, yet their counsel is filled with poison. They appear as allies but are, in truth, the enemies of righteousness. Let not the young and the passionate be deceived, for the fire of youthful desires, when unchecked by the Word of God, leads only to ruin.

continues 👇🏽

--- id:3895 | date:2025-02-17T08:59:02 ---
Continued 👆🏽

Choosing the Right Friends: A Matter of Eternal Consequence

Friendship is not a trivial matter; it is a path that either leads a man to God or away from Him. The friendships we cultivate determine the course of our lives, for, as the Scripture declares, "Bad company corrupts good morals" (1 Cor. 15:33).

The youth, especially, are vulnerable, for their hearts burn with passion, and their feet are swift to pursue whatever is placed before them. If they walk with the wise, they shall become wise; if they associate with the wicked, they shall be ensnared in the net of iniquity.

Thus, let us be vigilant in choosing our companions. Let our friends be those who love righteousness, who speak truth, who correct us in our errors, and who strengthen our faith. Let us flee from those whose words are smooth but whose hearts are full of deceit, for they shall lead us to destruction.

True friendship is not measured by pleasure or by the length of years but by righteousness. Blessed is the man who finds a friend like Jonathan, but cursed is he who walks with men like Jonadab.

May the Lord grant us wisdom to discern between true and false friends, that we may walk in righteousness all the days of our lives. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3896 | date:2025-02-18T07:31:40 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The #Biblical Teaching on #Friendship

Part 2

Beloved brethren, who seek the wisdom of God and the righteousness of His ways, may the peace of our Lord be upon you. Today, let us reflect on the divine teaching of friendship as illuminated by the Holy Scriptures, so that we may discern between those friendships that lead to life and those that bring destruction.

The sacred pages of the Bible present to us two striking examples of companionship: one radiant with virtue, and the other tainted by wickedness. These accounts are not mere historical recollections but divine lessons written for our edification, that we may walk in the path of righteousness and guard our souls against the snares of the enemy.

The Friendship of David and Jonathan: A Bond of Righteousness
Among the most blessed friendships in the history of mankind is that of David and Jonathan, a companionship fashioned in purity, selflessness, and divine love. Jonathan, the son of Saul, saw in David not a rival, nor a threat to his own inheritance, but a man chosen by God. Though his father, King Saul, was consumed with envy and sought to destroy David, Jonathan did not partake in his father’s malice. Instead, his soul was bound to David's in a covenant of love, so pure and unshaken that it reflected the very love with which God loves His children.

The Holy Scriptures declare:

"Jonathan's soul was bound up in David's soul, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul, and he made a covenant with David because he loved him" (1 Sam. 18:10-15; 1 Sam. 19:1-5).

Such a friendship is rare upon the earth, for it is not founded upon selfish gain, nor upon fleeting pleasures, but upon truth and virtue. Jonathan risked his own safety, defied his father’s wrath, and placed himself in peril—all for the sake of his friend, whom he loved as his own soul. He interceded for David before his father, seeking to preserve his life rather than betray him for the sake of power or advantage.

This is the essence of true friendship: to seek not our own gain but the good of the other; to love not with words alone but with deeds; to stand beside our friends in times of peril, even at great cost to ourselves. Such friendships are born not of the flesh but of the Spirit, and they reflect the love of Christ, who laid down His life for us.

The Deception of Jonadab: A Friendship of Wickedness
But, brethren, not all friendships are alike. Just as there exists companionship that leads to life, so too is there friendship that leads to destruction. The Scriptures present to us the tragic example of Amnon and Jonadab.

Amnon, a son of David, was consumed with an unlawful passion for his own sister, Tamar. Instead of resisting this sinful desire and seeking the counsel of the righteous, he turned to his friend Jonadab, a man of cunning but devoid of virtue. Rather than rebuking Amnon, warning him of the wrath of God, or guiding him towards repentance, Jonadab, with deceitful lips and a heart filled with iniquity, instructed him in evil.

By Jonadab’s wicked counsel, Amnon defiled his sister, an act that led not only to her ruin but to his own destruction at the hands of Absalom (2 Sam. 13:1-39). Here, we see the friendship of the ungodly: not one that edifies, but one that corrupts; not one that leads to life, but one that brings death. Jonadab was not a friend but a deceiver, an agent of the adversary, whispering lies and leading his companion into the pit of destruction.

Beware, therefore, of such men, for they are not friends but executioners of the soul. They speak soothing words, yet their counsel is filled with poison. They appear as allies but are, in truth, the enemies of righteousness. Let not the young and the passionate be deceived, for the fire of youthful desires, when unchecked by the Word of God, leads only to ruin.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3897 | date:2025-02-18T07:33:02 ---
Continued 👆🏽

Heartfelt Friendship: A Covenant Beyond the Physical

Friendship, as revealed in Scripture, is not contingent upon external factors such as race, language, or nationality. The love that binds true friends is not bound by the limitations of human distinctions. Whether one is rich or poor, from a different land, or speaks a different tongue, the bond of true friendship transcends such superficial differences. As we see in the early Church, believers from all walks of life were united by the bond of faith and love in Christ, forming a community of deep and meaningful friendships. 

Furthermore, it is crucial to note that heartfelt friendship differs greatly from mere physical or carnal relationships. The Bible calls us to love our friends in a manner that is pure, not motivated by selfish desires or fleeting passions. A true friend is one who shares in the spiritual journey, helping one another grow in faith and virtue.

The Tests of Friendship

True friendship will inevitably face tests and trials. In moments of difficulty, one can discern the strength and depth of a friendship. The Bible shows us that genuine friends stand by each other in times of hardship and are willing to offer correction, encouragement, and support. Proverbs 27:17 reminds us that "Iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another." True friends challenge one another to grow in holiness and wisdom, and in doing so, they strengthen one another in the Lord.

Moreover, the bonds of friendship are tested by the way we respond to each other's weaknesses. A true friend does not abandon or criticize harshly when their friend stumbles, but rather offers forgiveness and seeks to help them rise again. In this way, love truly "covers a multitude of sins" (1 Peter 4:8). This is the essence of Christian friendship—an enduring commitment to care for one another, even when one falls short.

Conclusion: A Call to Cultivate True and Godly Friendship

As we meditate upon the teachings of the Holy Bible, we are reminded that friendship is a gift from God, one that should be nurtured with love, loyalty, and selflessness. It is a divine calling to be faithful, trustworthy, and to reflect the love of Christ in our relationships with others. Let us not be swayed by the fleeting friendships of this world, but let us strive to build relationships that are eternal, grounded in the love of God and marked by the fruits of the Spirit.

As we walk this path, let us remember the words of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ: "Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends" (John 15:13). May our friendships be filled with this love, and may they serve as a reflection of the eternal friendship we have with Christ.

In this, let us strive to be true friends to one another, as Christ has been to us. May God grant us the grace to live in such friendship, now and forevermore. Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3899 | date:2025-02-19T13:15:08 ---


--- id:3900 | date:2025-02-19T13:16:02 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The #Biblical Teaching on #Friendship

Part 3

Beloved brethren, I greet you in the name of our Lord, Jesus Christ. May His light continually guide our hearts and illuminate our minds. Today, let us delve into the profound teaching of what the Holy Scriptures reveal to us about the nature of fellowship, especially that which is marked by true, godly friendship. For fellowship in Christ is not mere companionship or common enjoyment of earthly things, but is a divine bond rooted in love, sacrifice, and eternal purpose.

In the words of Solomon, “A friend who is near is better than a brother far away” (Proverbs 27:10). Here, the wise king imparts to us the sacred truth that a true friend is one who stands beside us, not only in times of joy but more importantly, in times of trial and tribulation. It is in these moments, when the shadows of life lengthen and the heart falters, that a true friend shines brightest.

Let us explore the depth of true friendship, which Scripture reveals to us.

1. The Helper in Times of Need

A good friend, according to the wisdom of the Scriptures, is a helper in times of need. When the storms of life rise, and we are shaken by trials, a true friend does not retreat into the comfort of their own safety. Rather, they draw near, offering assistance, solace, and guidance. Such friendship mirrors the love of Christ, who, though in heaven, descended to aid us in our greatest need—the salvation of our souls.

Christ Himself exemplified this in His earthly ministry. When He called Philip to follow Him, He did not come alone. Rather, He called his friend Nathanael and together, they were drawn into the circle of discipleship, becoming apostles of the Gospel. From this, we learn that a true friend is not a solitary figure, but one who seeks to bring others into the light of Christ. Friendship, in the eyes of the Lord, is not a relationship of self-interest, but one where the bond between the friends takes precedence over personal desires.

2. The Friend Who Shares in All Things

A true friend is one who shares in both sorrow and joy, as well as in the burdens and blessings of life. This sharing is not limited to material goods, but extends to the heart and spirit. A friend walks with you in moments of pain, bearing the weight of your sorrow as though it were their own. Likewise, they rejoice with you in times of triumph, lifting your spirit with genuine gladness. This shared participation in the totality of life is a reflection of the unity we are called to as members of the Body of Christ.

In the life of Job, we find a profound example of this type of fellowship. Though his friends did not initially offer wise counsel, they were there with him in his suffering, and through God's grace, they were later reconciled to Job. True friendship does not demand perfection or flawless wisdom; rather, it seeks reconciliation and unity even in the midst of disagreement and hardship. 

Let us, therefore, learn to bear with one another's burdens and faults, knowing that, as the Lord has forgiven us, we too must forgive our closest friends, for this is the mark of true fellowship.

3. The Role of Family in Friendship

While true friendship is often a bond shared between two individuals, it is not a relationship that is isolated from the broader family context. A true friend becomes, in a way, a part of the other’s family. They do not only share in personal joys and sorrows, but also in the joys and sorrows that touch the family. The intimacy of friendship extends beyond the confines of the individual and becomes a shared reality, a mutual care that affects both the friend and their family.

However, let us be vigilant in our friendships. As the Scriptures warn, the wrong company can lead us astray. A bad friend can draw us away from our spiritual path, leading us into sin or causing us to forsake the truth of the Gospel. Thus, we must be discerning in the friends we choose, ensuring that they lead us closer to Christ rather than further away.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3901 | date:2025-02-19T13:18:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

4. True Friendship Is Marked by Forgiveness

A key characteristic of true friendship is forgiveness. The prayer we offer to God daily, “Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us,” serves as a reminder that in our friendships, we must wear forgiveness like a garment. It is inevitable that misunderstandings and offenses will arise in any human relationship, yet a true friend is one who does not allow these offenses to fester and breed bitterness. Rather, they forgive, as Christ forgave us.

This forgiveness is not a fleeting act but a continual disposition of the heart. Tolerance, too, is a necessary virtue in true friendship. In our interactions, we must practice patience and understanding, even when our friends fall short. True fellowship, built on the foundation of Christ's love, does not permit petty disagreements to tear asunder the bonds of affection.

5. Togetherness in All Things

Friendship, according to the example of the apostles, is not simply an occasional gathering, but a lifelong bond of mutual support and commitment. True friends are not divided by distance, by the busy demands of life, or by the vicissitudes of time. Even when separated by miles, they remain united in purpose and spirit.

Saint Paul exemplifies this in his letters to Timothy and Titus. Though he was separated from them by great distances, Paul’s affection and concern for their well-being were unwavering. His words were not mere correspondence but a heartfelt expression of his love and desire to strengthen their faith. In the same way, we are called to remain in constant communion with our friends in Christ, offering encouragement, counsel, and comfort, even when we are apart. 

In a world that grows increasingly fragmented, where families and friendships are torn apart by fear, misunderstanding, and circumstance, the bond of true friendship remains a beacon of hope. A friend is one who remains steadfast, offering comfort, teaching, encouragement, and compassion. Even when the world seems cold and distant, a good friend remains a warm and constant presence.

6. Practical Expression of Friendship

The qualities of true friendship—love, loyalty, understanding, forgiveness, and shared purpose—are not abstract ideals, but practical realities. In true friendship, these virtues are lived out in tangible ways. A friend who truly loves you does not merely say so but demonstrates it through acts of kindness, sacrificial service, and words of encouragement. They do not only stand by your side in times of celebration but also in times of sorrow, offering their shoulder to lean on.

To forget these qualities, to neglect the bond of friendship, is to misunderstand its true nature. Friendship is not a transient or casual relationship. It is a sacred bond, rooted in love and devotion, reflecting the very heart of the Gospel. 

In the end, friendship is an expression of the sacrificial love Christ has for us. As we walk the spiritual path, we are called not only to offer material things but to give of ourselves—our time, our energy, and even our very souls. This is the true essence of friendship in Christ. It is a friendship that leads us into greater communion with God, one that transcends this world and reaches into the eternal.

To all, I say: May we all strive to cultivate such friendships, for they are not merely for this life but for the life to come. May the Lord bless us, and may our friendships be a reflection of His love for us.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3915 | date:2025-02-21T13:27:28 ---


--- id:3916 | date:2025-02-21T13:29:01 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽Who Is the #Holy #Spirit?

Part 1
The Divine Personhood of the Holy Spirit

Many have sought to understand the mystery of the Holy Spirit, yet misconceptions abound. Some, in their limited understanding, perceive the Holy Spirit as an abstract power, an impersonal force that moves without will or reason. Others, influenced by human wisdom rather than divine revelation, imagine Him as something Christ revealed but not as a distinct divine Person. However, the Holy Scriptures and the teachings of the holy fathers dispel such misunderstandings, affirming that the Holy Spirit is God—fully divine, possessing mind, will, and feeling, equal in essence and glory with the Father and the Son.

The Holy Spirit: One with the Father and the Son

The Holy Spirit is the very breath of God, proceeding from the Father and revealed through the Son. He is not lesser, nor is He separate from the divine nature. As St. Basil boldly proclaimed, “When I say God, I mean the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit,” affirming that the name "God" belongs to the Trinity as one undivided essence. This is the testimony handed down by the holy prophets, the apostles, and the blessed teachers of the Church, who, by divine inspiration, revealed the unity of the three persons in the Godhead.

The Vision of the Prophet Isaiah

The prophet Isaiah was granted a glimpse into the heavenly majesty of God. In the year of King Uzziah’s death, he beheld the Lord seated upon a high and exalted throne. Before Him stood the Seraphim, creatures of awe and mystery, covering their faces with their wings, overwhelmed by the divine splendor. With unceasing praise, they cried out:

"Holy, holy, holy, Lord God of hosts, the whole earth is full of Your glory."

This threefold declaration of holiness is no mere repetition but a profound revelation of the triune nature of God. As the scholar Seraph explains, the threefold “Holy” is unchanging in:

1) Nature
2) Existence
3) Ower
4) Dominion

Each of these attributes is shared among the three persons of the Godhead, revealing the unity and inseparability of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

The Testimony of the Cherubim

The prophet Isaiah was not alone in witnessing the heavenly praise. In the New Testament, Saint John the Evangelist beheld a similar vision. In his revelation, he saw those who stood before the throne of God, worshiping without ceasing:

1) A Man
2) A Lion
3) A Cow
4) An Eagle

These are the Cherubim, who, like the Seraphim of Isaiah’s vision, declare with one voice:

“Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, who was and who is and who is to come” (Revelation 4:8).

This divine praise is unchanging, just as God Himself is unchanging. It is the eternal worship of the Most High, in whom there is no variation or shadow of turning.

The Voice of the Lord: “Who Will Go for Us?”

Isaiah 6:9 records another remarkable revelation. The Lord speaks, saying:

“Whom shall I send? Who will go for us?”

This is no careless use of words, for God does not speak in confusion. The singular “I” followed by the plural “us” reveals the mystery of the Trinity. The unity of divine nature is declared in the “I,” while the distinction of persons is expressed in “us.” The Holy Spirit, as one with the Father and the Son, is included in this divine call.

When Isaiah, in holy zeal, answered, “Send me,” the Lord commanded him:

“Go and tell this people, ‘Hearing you will hear, but will not understand; seeing you will see, but will not perceive.’”

This same message, spoken by the Lord, was later quoted by both Saint John (John 12:39-41) and Saint Paul (Acts 28:25-27), showing that the words of the Holy Spirit in Isaiah’s vision are the words of God Himself.

The Holy Spirit in the Teachings of Saint Paul

Saint Paul, the chosen vessel of Christ, bore witness to the divinity of the Holy Spirit not only through his inspired writings but also through the authority of the Law, the Prophets, and the grace that governed the people of God.

Continues👇🏽

--- id:3917 | date:2025-02-21T13:32:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

He taught that the Holy Spirit is not a mere influence or an impersonal force but God Himself, the One who speaks, teaches, guides, and rebukes. In 1 Corinthians 2:11, he proclaims:

“For what man knows the things of a man except the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so, no one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God.”

This passage reveals a profound truth: just as a man's spirit knows his innermost thoughts, so too does the Spirit of God know the depths of God. If the Spirit knows what is within God, He must Himself be God, for none but God can comprehend the infinite.

Furthermore, in Hebrews 3:7, Paul attributes the words spoken by God to the Holy Spirit, reinforcing the truth that He is fully divine.

The Mystery of the Holy Spirit: Incomprehensible Yet Ever Present

The Holy Spirit is beyond human comprehension. He is the breath of God, the power that moved the prophets, the wisdom that enlightened the apostles, the fire that descended upon the Church. He cannot be measured, grasped, or contained, yet He dwells within the hearts of the faithful. He teaches, rebukes, comforts, and sanctifies.

He is not an abstract power, nor a distant force, but the Living God, one in essence with the Father and the Son, eternally worshipped and glorified.

Glory to God, the Virgin, and the Glorious Cross!

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3920 | date:2025-02-22T23:34:30 ---


--- id:3921 | date:2025-02-22T23:36:03 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The First Week of the #Great #Fast: #Zewerede

Beloved brethren in Christ, may the boundless peace and grace of our Lord and Savior be multiplied unto you. As we enter into the sacred season of Great Fasting, let us turn our hearts to contemplation and spiritual renewal. The first Sunday of this holy fast is called Zewerede, a name rich in divine mystery and salvific significance.

The Meaning of Zewerede

The term Zewerede signifies “descended”, reflecting the ineffable mystery of the Incarnation—God became man, so that man might become God. It is the commemoration of the divine condescension, the wondrous event in which the eternal Word, ineffably begotten of the Father, humbled Himself and took flesh from the Holy Virgin Mary for our salvation.

This week, therefore, marks the descent of Christ from the heavenly throne, His assumption of our human nature, and His mission to redeem fallen Adam and all his descendants. This descent is not merely a historical event but a present reality—one that must transform our hearts, our thoughts, and our way of life.

The Fulfillment of the Promise to Adam

In the fullness of time, as St. Paul testifies in his epistle to the Galatians, “God sent forth His Son, born of a woman” (Galatians 4:4). This divine act was not arbitrary but was the fulfillment of the primordial promise given to Adam, when the Most High declared, “After five and a half days, I will be born from your descendants, and I will be crucified on the cross and save you.” This, known as the Adam Covenant, is the cornerstone of all divine covenants, forming an unbroken chain of salvation linking the Old and New Testaments with unshakable certainty.

This week of fasting, therefore, is not merely a remembrance but a participation in the sacred mystery of Christ’s coming into the world. The prophets of old longed to see this day, and the patriarchs placed their hope in its fulfillment. The voice of prophecy resounded throughout the ages, foretelling the birth of the Messiah, the One who would shatter the bonds of sin and lead His people into the kingdom of righteousness. Zewerede is the dawn of our redemption, the manifestation of God’s unfathomable love, and the inauguration of the work that culminates in the glorious resurrection.

The Purpose of Our Fasting

If Christ descended from His throne of majesty for our sake, what then shall we render unto Him? If He bore the weight of our transgressions and subjected Himself to suffering, shall we not also crucify the desires of the flesh and submit ourselves to the discipline of fasting?

Brethren, let us make our fasting precious in the sight of God—not as an external obligation, but as a fragrant offering of our contrite hearts. Let us fast with sincerity, so that our petitions may ascend like incense before the Almighty. In this time of testing and tribulation, as the Church endures hardship, let us entreat the Lord with fervent supplication, that He may look upon us with mercy and answer our prayers.

Our fasting must not be one of mere abstinence from food but a spiritual exercise of purification and renewal. The Prophet Isaiah warns against an empty fast, saying:

“Is not this the fast that I have chosen? To loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke?” (Isaiah 58:6).

True fasting involves repentance, humility, and service to others. It calls us to clothe the naked, feed the hungry, and seek reconciliation with our brethren. Fasting, therefore, is not a burden but a means of drawing closer to God, purifying our souls, and realigning our lives with His divine will.

A Call to Prayer and Spiritual Vigilance

May God, who is the God of the righteous and the saints, accept our fasting and prayers, sanctify our souls, and strengthen us in the path of holiness. As we journey through this blessed season, let us remain steadfast in faith, unshaken in hope, and fervent in love, so that we may be found worthy to partake in the glory of Christ’s resurrection.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3922 | date:2025-02-22T23:39:01 ---
Continued ☝🏽 

Christ's descent into the world calls us to an ascent—an ascent of the soul, an ascent toward holiness, an ascent toward communion with God. Let this fast be the ladder that lifts us from our weaknesses and passions into the radiant presence of Christ.

Conclusion: A Sacred Invitation

This first week of the Great Fast is a sacred invitation to transformation. Let us embrace it with joy, with dedication, and with unwavering faith. Let us heed the words of our Lord:

“Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God” (Matthew 4:4).

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3923 | date:2025-02-23T01:00:01 ---


--- id:3924 | date:2025-02-23T01:02:01 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Feast of the #Covenant of #Mercy: A Divine Manifestation of Love and Intercession

Beloved brethren in Christ, let us gather our hearts and incline our minds to the celestial mysteries revealed through the most blessed Virgin, our Mother, the Theotokos, whom we honor on this sacred feast, the Covenant of Mercy. The light of her intercession shines forth like the dawn breaking through the night, and her love, an eternal beacon, calls us to divine remembrance.

As the Psalmist proclaims, "I will make my covenant with my chosen one" (Psalm 88:3). In these words, we discern a sacred truth—that the Lord has established an everlasting bond with the Mother of Mercy, an unshakable testament of intercession, granted for the redemption of all who seek refuge in her maternal embrace.

For fifteen years after the Ascension of our Lord, the blessed Virgin dwelt in the house of John the Beloved, contemplating the mystery of her Son’s triumph over death. Each day, her soul soared to the heights of devotion, and her feet carried her to Golgotha, where the most sacred tomb of the Lord lay. There, she stood unshaken, a pillar of prayer, interceding unceasingly for sinners.

The Heavenly Journey of the Virgin

On a most wondrous day, Yekatit 16, angels descended from the celestial courts to take the Holy Virgin to behold the hidden realms. First, they led her to the dwelling of the righteous, where Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and the holy prophets rested in the peace of God’s promise. Here, she beheld the abode of joy, where those faithful to the covenant rejoiced in divine splendor. Her soul was filled with unspeakable joy, and she glorified the Lord for His boundless mercy upon His chosen ones.

Yet, as a mother’s heart is not at peace while even one child suffers, the Virgin was then taken to witness the abode of the condemned. There, in the realm of darkness and fire, she beheld tormented souls—those who had turned away from divine grace, who had forsaken the path of righteousness. A sorrow so profound overcame her that she wept bitterly, her heart torn with anguish at the suffering of the lost.

Upon her return to the sacred tomb at Golgotha, she fell prostrate and, with tears like a river, poured out her supplication before the throne of her Son. With all the love of a mother pleading for her children, she cried out:

"My Child, my Lord, my God! In the name of Your Eternal Father, in the name of the Holy Spirit, in the name of Your Most Holy Name, in the name of the womb that bore You, in the name of the lips that kissed You, in the name of the arms that embraced You, in the name of the manger where You lay, in the name of the feet that walked with You in exile—O Lord, hear my plea!"

She entreated the Lord for all who would honor her name, for all who would build churches in her memory, clothe the naked, tend to the sick, feed the hungry, and comfort the afflicted. For all who would commemorate her feast, call their children by her name, and inscribe her praises upon their lips, she begged for an eternal reward beyond human comprehension.

Then, the King of Kings, the Eternal Word, Jesus Christ, responded to His Mother’s plea with unwavering love and divine assurance: "Whatever you ask, I will grant; whatever you seek, I will fulfill. By My very being, I swear that I will not break this oath!"

Thus, the Covenant of Mercy was established—a heavenly decree that those who invoke the name of the Virgin with faith, and who perform acts of love and righteousness, shall receive mercy beyond measure. The Virgin, the Ark of the New Covenant, the Advocate of the afflicted, was given a sacred promise that none who call upon her with sincerity would be forsaken.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3925 | date:2025-02-23T01:06:02 ---
Continued  ☝🏽 

The Path to Salvation through the Covenant of Mercy

Come now, faithful ones, and behold the great gift bestowed upon us! Shall we neglect so great a salvation? Shall we turn our hearts from such mercy? The Covenant of Mercy is not an excuse for iniquity but a call to righteousness. Without good works, without obedience to the divine law, can one expect salvation? No! For faith without works is dead, and those who invoke her name must also walk in the path of holiness.

Take heed, O Christian soul, and rejoice in this wondrous mystery! The Virgin’s intercession is a bridge from the depths of sin to the heights of divine grace. Those who honor her, who practice charity, and who live righteously according to the commandments of the Lord, shall taste the fruit of this holy covenant.

As the thief on the cross found mercy in his final breath, so too shall those who repent and cling to the Mother of Mercy find grace in their hour of need. For she is not merely the bearer of Christ; she is the bearer of divine compassion, the refuge of sinners, the mother of all who call upon her name.

Conclusion: A Call to Honor the Covenant

Brethren, as we commemorate this sacred feast, let us renew our devotion to the Virgin Mother. Let our lips sing forth her praises, let our hands be stretched forth in works of mercy, let our hearts be set ablaze with love for Christ.

May all who call upon her name find favor in the sight of the Lord. May her intercession be our shield in times of trial, our light in times of darkness, and our refuge in the hour of judgment. And may we, through her Covenant of Mercy, be found worthy to inherit the kingdom prepared for the righteous from the foundation of the world.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3932 | date:2025-02-24T00:13:02 ---


--- id:3933 | date:2025-02-24T00:13:09 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The #Great #Lent #Fast, or #Abiy #Tsom: A Sacred Journey of Repentance and Victory

Introduction

The Great Lent Fast, or "Abiy Tsom," is the longest and most significant fast in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Derived from the Ge'ez verb "Abeye," meaning "to rise," this fast is set apart in name and practice. It is a time of spiritual ascent, imitating Christ's own fasting and triumph over temptation.

Why Is It Called the Great Fast?

There are three primary reasons why this fast is deemed "Great":

1. Jesus Christ Himself fasted for forty days and nights (Matthew 4:2-3), making it a fast sanctified by His divine example.

2. The length of the fast surpasses all others, lasting for 55 days.

3. Christ’s victory over Satan and the three cardinal sins—pride, greed, and materialism—took place during this period (Matthew 4:3-11).

The Many Names of the Great Fast

This fast is known by several names, each revealing a profound aspect of its significance:

The Great Fast – Emphasizing its spiritual and numerical superiority.

The Fast of Jesus – Since Christ Himself undertook this fast (Matthew 4:1).

Hudade Fast – Derived from "Hudade," meaning a vast field, signifying the vastness of its spiritual benefits.

Forty (40) Fast – Referring to Christ’s forty-day fast in the wilderness (Matthew 4:2).

Fast of Reparation – Representing Christ’s redemption of humanity from sin.

Fast of Victory – Celebrating Christ’s triumph over Satan.

Fasting of Doctrine – Because Christ fasted to teach us by example.

The Fast of Transition – Symbolizing a passage into spiritual renewal.

The Triumph Over Temptation

This sacred period marks the defeat of three fundamental temptations:

1. Pride – The temptation to exalt oneself above God.

2. Worship of False Gods – The temptation to bow to worldly power and idols.

3. Materialism – The temptation to prioritize earthly needs over spiritual sustenance.

The Structure of the Great Fast

The Great Fast is divided into three main sections:

1. The Fast of Heraclius (The First Sunday of Lent)

2. The Forty-Day Fast (Holy Monday to Good Friday)

3. The Passion Week (Hosanna to Good Friday)

The eight weeks of the fast, named by St. Yared, reflect its spiritual progression:

1. The Week of the Holy Descent (Ze'worede) – Beginning the fast with humility.

2. The Week of Holiness (Kidsit)– Focusing on purity and dedication.

3. The Week of the Synagogue (Mekurab) – Meditating on the teachings of Christ.

4. The Week of the Feast (Më'tsagu)– Rejoicing in spiritual nourishment.

5. The Week of the Mount of Olives (Debre Zeit) – Commemorating faith and asceticism.

6. The Week of the Faithful Servant (Gëbre Hër) – Remembering acts of righteousness.

7. The Week of Nicodemus – Reflecting on spiritual rebirth.

8. The Week of Hosanna – Preparing for Christ’s triumphant entry and Passion.

The Fast of Heraclius: A Historical Remembrance

The first Sunday of Lent is known as the Fast of Heraclius in remembrance of a miraculous event. In 641 AD, the Persian king Khosrow II invaded Jerusalem, plundering Christian relics, including the True Cross. After fourteen years, Emperor Heraclius led a victorious campaign, restoring the Cross and freeing captives. In gratitude, the Church instituted this fast, symbolizing the triumph of faith over oppression.

The Spiritual Significance of Fasting
Christ taught that fasting is essential for spiritual strength and victory over sin. The Great Fast is a time for:

Disciplining the body and soul – Strengthening the spirit against temptation.

Deep prayer and repentance – Seeking God's mercy and transformation.

Growing in righteousness – Preparing our hearts for the Resurrection.

Continues👇🏽

--- id:3934 | date:2025-02-24T00:13:09 ---
Continued👆🏽

Conclusion

As we enter this sacred season, let us not see it as a burden but as a divine opportunity. Just as Christ fasted and overcame temptation, so too can we emerge victorious through prayer, humility, and steadfast faith. May this Great Fast elevate our souls and bring us closer to our Creator.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3938 | date:2025-02-26T00:36:02 ---
👉 About realizing our #spiritual #goals

👉🏾 Question፦ Any advice on Spiritual goal setting? It's easy to fall into decision paralysis in figuring out where to start. There's many facets from spiritual, intellectual, physical, etc that one can choose from

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child. It brings me joy to hear your desire for spiritual growth. It is indeed true that the path to salvation has many facets, like a beautifully cut diamond reflecting the infinite light of God. Yet, like a traveler overwhelmed by many paths, one can be paralyzed by choice. 

Remember the words of our Lord, “Seek ye first the Kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.” (Matthew 6:33).  Let this be your guiding star. 

Let us then simplify, for our Lord is a God of simplicity and order. 

Start with the Foundational Stones:

1. Prayer: As the deer pants for the water brooks, so pants my soul for You, O God (Psalm 42:1).  Begin with small, heartfelt prayers throughout your day. Morning and evening prayers, even if just a few minutes, can set the tone for seeking His presence. The Jesus Prayer ("Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner") is a powerful tool for constant remembrance of God.

2. Fasting:  Fasting is not merely abstaining from food but from passions as well. Start with the fasting days prescribed by the Church. This physical discipline strengthens the spirit.

3. Study of Scripture:  Just as you nourish your body with food, so too must you nourish your soul. Begin with a Gospel, perhaps Matthew, and reflect upon a small passage each day.  

4. Almsgiving:  "Give, and it will be given to you." (Luke 6:38).  Offer what you can, be it time, talent, or treasure, to those in need.  Even a small act of charity, done with a loving heart, is pleasing to God.

Remember these key principles:

Consistency: Like a gently flowing stream, consistency, even in small acts, carves a deep riverbed of faith.

Guidance:  Seek the counsel of your spiritual father. He can offer personalized direction based on your unique path.

Patience:  Spiritual growth is a lifelong journey. Be patient with yourself, for God is patient with us.

Do not be overwhelmed, my child. Take one step at a time, with God as your guide, and He will illuminate the path before you. 

May the Lord bless you and guide you in your spiritual endeavors.  

If you wish to delve deeper into any of these practices or have further questions, do not hesitate to ask. I am here to assist you on your journey.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3942 | date:2025-02-26T22:00:45 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽What Is #Despair?

Part 1

Dear seekers of divine wisdom, may the grace of God, the intercessions of the Virgin, and the power of the Cross be with you. Today, we embark on a profound reflection upon despair a state of the soul that seeks to sever us from the path of divine guidance. This lesson, rooted in the teachings of the Holy Fathers, exposes the schemes of the adversary, who labors to shroud us in darkness so that we may forsake the light of hope. May your heart be attentive, and may these words take root within your soul.

The Nature of Despair

When tribulation arises, when the currents of life flow contrary to our expectations, a shadow descends upon the heart. This shadow is despair. It is a storm that clouds the mind, a weight that presses upon the soul. It manifests in many ways:

A negative feeling that darkens our spirit

A sadness that weighs heavily upon the heart

A response to obstacles that seem insurmountable

A lament when our expectations are shattered

A grief when our hopes remain unfulfilled

A sorrow when that which we sought to change only worsens

This sorrow, if left unguarded, festers into despair a deadly sickness of the soul.

The Conflict Between Our Plans and Divine Providence

From childhood, we dream of a certain path, yet life often unfolds in ways we do not foresee. What we desire and what God ordains may stand in stark contrast. When we see the righteous suffer, when the wicked prosper, when our prayers seem unanswered, our faith is tested. This test is not to break us but to refine us.

The Two Weapons of the Adversary
The enemy of our souls employs two great deceptions to lead us into despair:

“You have left God's will.”
He whispers that we have strayed too far, that there is no redemption left for us, that all is lost.

“God has abandoned you.”
He seeks to convince us that the Almighty has turned His face away, that we are left to wander without guidance.

With these weapons, Satan wounds the hearts of believers, making them bleed with doubt and sorrow. But we must stand firm, for these are lies designed to sever us from God’s mercy.

The Consequences of Despair

Despair is not merely an emotion; it is a force that leads the soul astray. The first thing it robs from us is not wealth, nor relationships, nor opportunities. The first loss is divine guidance.

The adversary knows that if we walk by God’s leading, all else will follow. So, he seeks to remove us from that path, to drive us into confusion and aimless wandering. He convinces the despairing soul that:
There is no opportunity where they are.
Their surroundings offer nothing for them.
Another place, another land, another path will provide what they seek.

Thus, the desperate one becomes like a miner digging for oil without research striving in futility. They become a wanderer, forsaking the path where God has planted them.

The Hidden Victory in Our Trials

Despair is dangerous because it blinds us to the victories hidden within our trials. When God desires to grant us great blessings, He often allows us to pass through great tribulations. This is the mystery of divine providence:

He desires to give us great victories, yet He allows us to endure great struggles.
He ordains abundant blessings, yet He first leads us through hardship.
He has a grand design for our lives, yet that path is often paved with trials.

No opposition, no failure, no fall can interrupt the plan of God. Even when we stumble, even when the world stands against us, His purpose remains unshaken.

The Hard Road of God’s Will

To walk in God’s will is not to walk a path of ease. The way of the Lord is filled with difficulties:
It is a dangerous road.
It is a path of stumbling.
It is a journey where we fall, rise, and fall again.
It is a path where expectation and reality often clash.

Consider the patriarchs:

Moses, raised in Pharaoh’s palace, became a shepherd in Midian before God called him back to lead Israel.

Abraham obeyed God’s command and journeyed into the unknown, only to face famine in the land of promise.

Continues👇🏽

--- id:3943 | date:2025-02-26T22:03:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

David was anointed king yet spent years as a fugitive in the wilderness.

God’s plan was never absent from their lives, though their circumstances seemed contrary. The same is true for us. When we labor below our level, when we live beneath our expectations, we must not despair. This does not mean God’s plan has failed; rather, it means He is shaping us for His divine purpose.

The Call to Perseverance

When Abraham obeyed, he encountered famine. When we follow God’s voice, we may encounter lack, opposition, and hardship. But this is not a sign of abandonment; it is a sign of preparation. The road of faith is not one of ease but of endurance.

Let us then cast aside despair. Let us reject the lies of the enemy. No matter the trial, no matter the hardship, let us stand firm in the knowledge that God’s will cannot be thwarted.

Though we fall, we shall rise. Though we are opposed, we shall prevail. Though the way is dark, the light of Christ shall lead us forward.
Glory be to God, to the Virgin, and to the Cross, forever and ever. Amen!


May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3944 | date:2025-02-27T02:22:02 ---
👉🏾 About how to live a #sacramental #life

👉🏾 Question፦ Hello, I have a question. 

Regarding Holy Communion:

- So we are told not to have the mindset of — I need to fix myself first and go to God after that because that’s thinking we can fix the sin or our spiritual life ourselves without Gods help.

• But what if we feel like our heart is distracted by worldly desires, things you want to accomplish, laziness, and a lot of other thoughts. Or if I feel like my heart is not prioritizing God and not putting God at the center of my life & isn’t ready to make a full commitment or ready to stop living a carefree life (by carefree, I don’t mean living in sin, but about living without worrying so much about spiritual life. Which I guess is a sin and can lead to sins).

In this case, should that person take a step back and fix that state of being before continuing a sacramental life? Or is this issue something that God fixes once I go back to or start living a sacramental life & taking Holy communion. 

If the person should stop and fix this issue first, what tips would you give for developing a serious mindset and for preparing our hearts for full commitment to God that’s unwavering. 

- lastly, what kind of mindset and perspective should a person have about commitment to God when starting a sacramental life.  

-What actions or lifestyle should a person who is making a commitment to God have.

Thank you!

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, and grace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.  It warms this old monk's heart to hear such seeking! Your question speaks of a heart yearning for closeness to God, and that desire itself is a gift from the Holy Spirit. 

You are right, my child. To believe we can cleanse ourselves of sin and ready ourselves for communion through our own efforts is prideful.  As Scripture says, “Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spots? Then also you can do good who are accustomed to doing evil.” (Jeremiah 13:23) 

Yet, you also rightly identify the danger of approaching the chalice with a divided heart.  We are called to "love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind" (Matthew 22:37).  How can we offer Him anything less than our whole selves?

This is a delicate balance, is it not?  We cannot rely on our own strength, yet we must also strive for a heart prepared to receive Him.  

Here, the wisdom of the Holy Fathers, those pillars of the faith who walked this path before us, offers guidance.  

Remember the Parable of the Great Supper: In Luke 14:16-24, our Lord speaks of a man who prepared a great feast. When all those invited made excuses, he invited the poor, the crippled, the blind – all those in need.  This parable reminds us that God invites all to His table, especially those who recognize their own poverty of spirit.  He does not wait for us to be perfect, but to come as we are, with humble and repentant hearts, ready to receive His healing grace.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:3945 | date:2025-02-27T02:25:24 ---
Continued 👆🏾

St. Isaac the Syrian teaches, "Enter into your heart's chamber, shut its doors behind you, and seek Him out. He is nearer to you than you are to yourself."  This seeking, this turning inward to cultivate stillness and communion with God, is vital.  

Here are some practices that may help:

Guard your prayer rule diligently. Even short, heartfelt prayers throughout the day can help maintain a spirit of communion with God.

Study the Scriptures.  Immerse yourself in the Psalms, the Gospels, the wisdom of the Church Fathers. Let their words nourish your soul and guide your steps.

Practice fasting. Fasting, even once or twice a week, helps to subdue the passions and clear the mind, making us more receptive to God's grace.

Give alms.  Even small acts of generosity can help to soften our hearts and turn our focus outward.

Remember, my child, the Christian life is a journey, not a destination. We are all works in progress, constantly striving towards God. Do not be discouraged by your imperfections, but rather, let them draw you closer to the One who can heal and perfect you.

Before approaching the chalice, engage in honest self-examination. Confess your weaknesses and distractions to God, asking for His help to receive the Eucharist worthily. 

And never hesitate to seek guidance from your spiritual father.  He, as a shepherd appointed by God, can offer the specific counsel and direction you seek on this blessed path.

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you always.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3961 | date:2025-03-01T09:00:08 ---


--- id:3962 | date:2025-03-01T09:00:26 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽What Do We #Fast From So That Our #Fasting Is #Correct?

Beloved children of the Church, grace and peace be multiplied unto you. As we enter into the sacred practice of fasting, let us not merely abstain from food and drink, but let us ensure that our fasting is acceptable before God, that it is a fast which sanctifies both body and soul, a fast which lifts us from the earthly to the heavenly. For the Lord does not look upon those who merely deny themselves bread, but upon those who, in the spirit of repentance, deny themselves every evil way.

The Fast of the Whole Body

If only the stomach fasts, what benefit is there? If we abstain from meat and drink but indulge in the passions of the flesh, what have we gained? A true fast is the fasting of the whole body—every member, every faculty, every sense.

The eyes must fast from gazing upon evil, from looking with lust or envy.

The ears must fast from hearing slander, gossip, and idle talk.

The mouth must fast from lies, from insults, from false witness, from murmuring against others.

The hands must fast from theft, from violence, from actions that defile the soul.

The feet must fast from running toward sin, from walking in the counsel of the ungodly.


Thus, fasting is not merely refraining from food but refraining from sin. If we fast from food but indulge in anger, we have changed one sin for another. If we refuse meat but feast upon hatred, we have polluted the fast. True fasting cleanses both body and soul, preparing us for divine grace.

Why Do We Fast?

Do we fast because food is sinful? No! For the Lord Himself gave food as a gift to man. We fast not because food defiles, but because it strengthens the flesh and weakens the spirit when taken without measure. It is not food that is unholy, but gluttony. It is not drink that is impure, but indulgence. Therefore, we deny ourselves not because food is evil, but so that we may hunger for the things of heaven rather than the things of the earth.

As St. Paul says, “I discipline my body and bring it into subjection” (1 Corinthians 9:27). He did not say, "I let my body lead me," but rather, "I subdue it, that it may be subject to my spirit." We too, therefore, must weaken the desires of the flesh so that the soul may rise in strength.

The Twofold Nature of Fasting

The Church teaches that fasting is twofold:

1. Fasting from food—We refrain from certain foods not because they are sinful, but as a discipline, so that the body may be tamed, and the soul may be free to soar towards God.

2. Fasting from sin—We turn away from all evil, from every passion, from every unrighteous deed, so that our fasting may be made perfect.

What benefit is there in avoiding meat if our tongue devours the reputation of our neighbor? What gain is there in avoiding drink if we intoxicate ourselves with pride and arrogance? If we wish to offer a true fast before the Lord, let us cleanse both body and soul.

The Blessings of Fasting

Fasting is not a burden but a blessing. It is not a punishment but a gift. Those who fast in the right way receive abundant grace, and the scriptures testify to this:

Blessing in work and ministry – The apostles fasted that their ministry might be blessed, and the prophet Nehemiah fasted before undertaking the work of rebuilding Jerusalem (Nehemiah 1:4). When we fast, our work is blessed, and our labor is sanctified.

Blessing in provision – In the days of the prophet Joel, when the land was barren and the rain had ceased, fasting and prayer restored the blessings of God (Joel 1:12-14). When we fast, God provides in ways beyond our understanding.

Blessing in the harvest – The seed that is sown is made fruitful by the prayers of the fasting. Fasting opens the gates of heaven and brings forth abundance (Joel 2:12-14).

Blessing of the soul  Fasting heals the soul, purifies the spirit, and subdues the flesh. As the Psalmist says, “My knees are weak through fasting, and my flesh has grown lean” (Psalm 109:24). The weakening of the body leads to the strengthening of the soul.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3963 | date:2025-03-01T09:03:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

Reconciliation with God – The mind that is set on the flesh is at enmity with God (Romans 8:7), but fasting brings reconciliation, just as the people of Nineveh repented with fasting and were delivered from destruction (Jonah 3:1-10).

Victory over demons – Our Lord Himself declared that certain demons are cast out only by fasting and prayer (Matthew 17:21). When we fast, we drive away the powers of darkness and strengthen the soul against temptation.

Revelation of divine mysteries – The prophet Daniel fasted and was granted divine revelations (Daniel 10:1-3). Those who fast with sincerity are given wisdom and insight into the mysteries of God.

Thus, fasting is not merely an abstention from food but a pathway to divine blessings. It removes every barrier between us and God, strengthens our prayers, and purifies our hearts.

The True Spirit of Fasting

The purpose of fasting is not merely to afflict the body but to lift the soul. If we fast but remain filled with pride, we have fasted in vain. If we deny food but indulge in wrath, we have gained nothing. Let us therefore fast with humility, with prayer, with repentance, with love.

Let us not fast like the Pharisee, who boasted before God, saying, “I fast twice a week” (Luke 18:12), but let us fast with the spirit of the tax collector, who, in humility, beat his breast and cried out, “God, have mercy on me, a sinner!” (Luke 18:13). For the Lord does not desire fasting that is filled with self-righteousness but fasting that is filled with repentance.

Beloved brethren, if we fast with a pure heart, if we abstain not only from food but from sin, if we humble ourselves before God, then our fasting shall be acceptable in His sight. And in the day of His coming, we shall rejoice with the saints and feast at the heavenly banquet, where there is no hunger, no thirst, but only the eternal joy of being in the presence of the Lord.

Let us therefore embrace the true fast, that we may inherit the true blessing.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3982 | date:2025-03-04T13:29:18 ---


--- id:3983 | date:2025-03-04T13:29:25 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The #Mystery & #Power of Prayer

Beloved brethren in Christ, let us reflect on the divine mystery of prayer, that sacred bridge between man and God, where the soul communes with its Creator, lifting up its supplications, praises, and adorations. Prayer is the lifeblood of the Christian, the means by which we stand before God, seek His mercy, and offer Him the glory due to His name. It is not a mere utterance of words, but a profound engagement of the heart, the mind, and the soul.

The Meaning and Essence of Prayer

Prayer, in its purest sense, is an act of glorification. The Ge’ez root word zelaye signifies praise, exaltation, and supplication. Thus, to pray is to magnify the Lord, to lift our voices in thanksgiving, and to seek His grace with a heart full of reverence. As the Psalmist declares, "O You who hear prayer, to You all flesh will come." (Psalm 64:2)

Yet, prayer is also an expression of trust. We pray not because we see immediate results, but because we believe in the unseen. As the Apostle Paul reminds us, "Hope that is seen is not hope." (Romans 8:24-26) True prayer is an act of faith, rooted in the conviction that our Heavenly Father hears and answers according to His divine wisdom.

The Necessity of Prayer

The Lord Himself has commanded us to pray. When the disciples asked Him to teach them, He gave them the Lord’s Prayer, instructing them in the manner of supplication. "Give us this day our daily bread," (Matthew 6:11) He taught, showing us that our reliance must be on God for all things. Whether in times of peace or in times of distress, we are called to approach Him with boldness:
"Call on me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you will glorify me." (Psalm 49:15)

But let us not pray as those who doubt. Our petitions must be made with unwavering faith, free from hesitation, firm in trust. The Scriptures warn against the double-minded man who is unstable in all his ways, for such a person will not receive anything from the Lord (James 1:6-8). Instead, we are exhorted to "approach the throne of grace with confidence, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in our time of need." (Hebrews 4:16)

The Proper Manner of Prayer
Prayer is not confined to a specific time or place—it is the unceasing language of the faithful. Yet, the Church, in her wisdom, has taught us the proper manner in which prayer should be offered, that we may approach God with due reverence.

1. Standing in Readiness 

When we stand in prayer, we must prepare both our inner and outer selves. Just as the priest stands before the altar with dignity, so must we present ourselves before the Lord with reverence. The Psalmist says, "In the morning, O Lord, You will hear my voice; in the morning I will stand before You and watch." (Psalm 5:3)

The patriarchs understood the necessity of such preparation. When Abraham’s servant sought the Lord’s guidance, he stood in prayer before making his petition (Genesis 24:12-14). We, too, must stand in a spirit of reverence, for in prayer we stand before the King of kings.

2. Girding Ourselves and Facing East (Qenite Haqe)

It is fitting that we pray with our loins girded and our faces turned toward the east, for the Lord Himself has commanded, "Let your loins be girded and your lamps burning." (Luke 12:35) This is a posture of readiness, an acknowledgment that we stand as servants prepared to receive the Master.

Throughout Scripture, we see the faithful lifting their eyes to the heavens, their faces turned toward the place of divine glory. Our Lord Himself, when blessing the loaves, lifted His eyes toward heaven (Matthew 14:19; Mark 7:34; John 11:41). Thus, when we pray, let us do so with the same devotion.

3. Making the Sign of the Cross
To cross ourselves is not a mere gesture but a declaration of faith. It is an act of protection, a sign of the Lord’s authority over us. The Scriptures testify that the righteous bear the mark of God upon them (Ezekiel 9:4; Revelation 7:3), and so we make the sign of the cross to proclaim our deliverance from sin and death.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3984 | date:2025-03-04T13:29:31 ---
Continued 👆🏽

In this sacred act, we affirm:

The Lordship and majesty of God.

The mystery of Christ’s incarnation and sacrifice.

Our passage from darkness into light, from death into life.


Let us not neglect this powerful sign, for through it, we proclaim our salvation.

4. Standing in Fear and Trembling

Before the Almighty, let no man approach in arrogance. The Psalmist declares, "I have set the Lord always before me; because He is at my right hand, I will not be shaken." (Psalm 15:8)

Our posture in prayer must be one of humility and awe. The Lord has warned, "Be watchful always in prayer, that you may stand before the Son of Man." (Luke 21:36) Let us, therefore, be mindful of the holiness of the One to whom we speak.

5. Prostration (Astekot)

Prostration is an ancient and holy practice, a bodily expression of the soul’s submission. The Scriptures declare, "You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve." (Matthew 4:10) This worship is both spiritual and physical, for our whole being must bow before the Lord (John 4:24).

The spiritual fathers teach that it is fitting to prostrate once or three times before beginning prayer, and during times of deep supplication, 36 times. Yet, on certain holy days, such as the Sabbath and the feasts of the Lord, prostration is reserved for specific moments. In all things, we follow the order set by the Church.

6. Lifting the Hands in Prayer

Lifting our hands in prayer is not an empty motion but a sign of divine appeal. The Scriptures record, "Ethiopia shall stretch out her hands to God." (Psalm 67:31)

To lift our hands is to:

Acknowledge God’s power (Exodus 9:29).

Follow the tradition of the righteous (1 Kings 8:22; Psalm 28:2).

Declare submission to divine authority (Isaiah 25:1-11).

Proclaim our turning from sin (Isaiah 65:2).

Thus, when we make our petitions, let us do so with hands raised, as did the prophets and saints before us.

Conclusion: The Heart of Prayer

Brethren, let us not approach prayer as a duty performed out of routine, but as a divine privilege granted to us. In prayer, we stand before the throne of grace. In prayer, we commune with the Living God. In prayer, we wage war against the enemy, drive away the darkness, and receive the strength to walk in righteousness.

Let our prayers be full of faith, unshaken in hope, and fervent in love. And may the Lord, in His boundless mercy, accept our supplications and count us worthy to stand before Him in His kingdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3986 | date:2025-03-05T08:51:02 ---


--- id:3987 | date:2025-03-05T08:52:02 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽How Do We #Repent?

Beloved children of the one Holy Church, let us consider the true nature of repentance, that great mystery by which man is reconciled to his Creator. The path to repentance is not one of mere words or fleeting remorse but a profound turning of the heart toward God, a movement of the soul that seeks not only forgiveness but transformation. Let us, then, study the way of repentance, that we may not only seek mercy but be made new in Christ.

The Essence of True Repentance

The first step in our journey is to understand that repentance must arise not from fear of punishment but from love for God. A repentance born of fear is like a fire that flares up briefly and is extinguished, but a repentance rooted in love is a flame that continues to burn, consuming all impurity. The prodigal son did not return because he feared hunger alone, but because he remembered the goodness of his father. Likewise, we must remember the boundless mercy of our Lord and return to Him in sincerity.

To receive God’s grace of forgiveness, we must enter into a state of genuine spiritual awakening. Repentance is not a transaction, where we confess and then return to our old ways. No! It is a change of being, a resurrection of the soul from death to life.

The Steps of True Repentance

1. Honesty Before God and Ourselves

He who does not know himself cannot truly repent. We must stand before our own conscience without bias or self-justification. The Lord Himself declared, “He who loves his life will lose it.” (John 12:25). This means that if we cling to our sinful ways, excusing them, or loving the darkness more than the light, we will lose our very souls. True repentance requires brutal honesty, for only in truth can we be set free.

2. Forsaking Sin and Its Causes

Repentance is not simply regretting our sins but turning away from them with a firm resolve. A man who repents with his lips but continues to dwell in the places of sin has not yet truly repented. We must cut off not only the sin itself but its roots and causes. Let us ask ourselves: What leads us to sin? Is it bad company, idleness, or certain desires? Whatever it may be, let us cast it far from us, lest it ensnare us again.

3. Examining Our Conscience Carefully

The wise man does not build his house without first inspecting the ground. Likewise, we must examine our hearts and carefully discern where we have fallen. Sins are not only those committed in action but also in thought and emotion. Anger, pride, envy—these, too, are sins that corrupt the soul. Repentance requires humility, a willingness to look deeply within and acknowledge every fault without excuse.

4. Truthfulness in Repentance

One cannot deceive the Holy Spirit. He who lies to the Father of repentance deceives not man, but God. Let us remember Ananias, who, by lying to the Apostle Peter, was struck down. “Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit?” (Acts 5:3). If we are not truthful in our confession, then our repentance is nothing but an empty performance, and we remain bound in sin.

5. Hiding Nothing, Confessing All

The prophet Jeremiah teaches us: “Pour out your heart like water before the Lord.” (Lamentations 2:19). What does this mean? It means that we must reveal everything before God and His priest, holding back nothing. Water, when poured out, leaves no trace behind; so must our confession be complete, leaving no secret corners of sin within us. If we hide our sins, they fester like a wound that is left untreated. But if we expose them, the priest, by the grace of God, can apply the necessary healing to our soul.

The Attitude of a True Penitent

A repentant heart does not seek to justify itself.

A repentant heart does not blame others for its sins.

A repentant heart does not wallow in excessive sorrow or despair but trusts in the mercy of God.

Repentance is not self-condemnation; it is self-awareness. It is not despair but hope. It is not merely confessing sin but resolving never to return to it.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3988 | date:2025-03-05T08:54:01 ---
Continued👆🏽

Obedience and Spiritual Guidance

A sick man who desires healing must follow the physician’s advice. Likewise, a repentant soul must listen to the spiritual instructions given by the priest. To confess and then ignore the guidance given is like a man who plants seeds but refuses to water them. True repentance requires that we follow the path laid before us, diligently applying the remedies given for our spiritual well-being.

Wrestling with God in Prayer

Repentance is not a passive act; it is a struggle, a wrestling of the soul with God. The Lord Himself invites us, saying:

“Come, let us reason together, says the Lord; though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow.” (Isaiah 1:18)

No matter how great our sins, they are not greater than God’s mercy. The blood of Christ is sufficient to cleanse the deepest stains. But we must come before Him in sincerity, confessing, repenting, and striving to live anew.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3991 | date:2025-03-07T13:16:44 ---


--- id:3992 | date:2025-03-07T13:16:56 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽Why Is the #Second #Week of #Great #Lent Called #Holy ?

Beloved followers of Orthodox teachings, peace and blessings be upon you. Let us now turn our hearts and minds toward the sacred truth of the season, for we stand in a time sanctified by the grace of God a time named holy by the venerable Saint Yared, who, through the praises he composed, has guided us in wisdom toward the mystery of this sacred week.

The Meaning of "Holy"

The word holy signifies that which is separate, chosen, and glorious (Book of Grammar and Dictionary, p. 784). Holiness is not a mere name but a divine reality, a calling bestowed upon the faithful to partake in the sanctity of God. The reason this week is called holy is that it directly reflects the perfect holiness of the Creator Himself, whose desire is that all His creatures might live in holiness and glorify His name.

The Sabbath, the day upon which we set aside worldly toil and turn wholly to God, is the union of work and rest, name and glory, time and eternity. It is holy because it sanctifies us, and in return, we honor it. It was for this reason that Saint Yared, in his sacred hymns, instructed the faithful with these words:

"Give thanks to God, declare His name and His good deeds to the nations, and give thanks to His name. Honor the Sabbath and do what is right. Lay up for yourselves a treasure in heaven that no thief can destroy and no one can get at. Be prepared and look up to Christ above."

Thus, the holiness of this time is not an arbitrary designation, but a divine commandment, a manifestation of God's love. He has given us His law so that we might walk in the path of holiness—fasting, praying, and living in righteousness.

The Holiness of Time

Saint Yared, the illumined one, calls this time holy for several reasons:

1. It is the beginning of the forty-day fast
This sacred period marks the commencement of the Great Fast, a time of purification and spiritual renewal, modeled after the fasting of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Just as He withdrew into the wilderness for forty days and forty nights, triumphing over the temptations of the adversary, so too are we called to enter into the discipline of fasting, subduing the desires of the flesh that our spirits may ascend toward divine grace.

2. It falls on the Holy Sabbath
The commandment resounds through the ages: "Remember to keep the Sabbath day holy." (Exodus 20:8) This is not merely a suggestion but a divine decree, for God Himself sanctified the seventh day from the beginning of time:

"And God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it He rested from all His work which God created and made to do." (Genesis 2:3)

And what does this mean for the faithful? That on this day, we must set aside all worldly distractions. Saint Yared, in his wisdom, exhorts us:

"Not even one of the believers should be busy with money on Sunday, saying, ‘Bring me my money,’ or take a pledge. All believers should come to church in purity and humility. They should not be afraid that the judge will say, ‘Bring me my tax,’ the lender my debt, the bishop the tithes, and the tax."

The Sabbath is a time not for the anxieties of the world but for the peace of God. It is a time to lay aside all burdens and enter into the divine presence with a pure heart.

3. It is a time of fasting, prayer, and spiritual labor
The saints and righteous ones have always held fasting as the foundation of holiness, for fasting is not merely the abstention from food but the elevation of the soul toward God. Saint Yared proclaims:

"Fasting is the mother of prayer, the sister of humility, the source of tears, the beginning of all good works."

What, then, is required of us in this time? That we fast not only from food but from sin, that we cleanse our hearts with prayer, that we bow our bodies in prostration, that we open our hands in almsgiving, and that we increase in good deeds.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3993 | date:2025-03-07T13:20:02 ---
Continued 👆🏽

This is the month of fasting, a season when we seek holiness with renewed fervor, when we strive more earnestly toward God, and when we begin every good work with the purity of heart that alone is worthy of Him.

As the prophet exhorts us:

"Sanctify a fast and proclaim the assembly," for the grace given to us is in our hands, and we must not squander it.

4. It is the fulfillment of the Gospel commandment
The holiness of this time is not merely the tradition of men but the very command of God. The Psalmist proclaims:

"This is the day that the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it." (Psalm 117:24)

And the beloved disciple, Saint John, testifies in his divine vision:

"I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day." (Revelation 1:10)

The wisdom of the Church, entrusted to us by the saints, teaches us:

"Gather together in church every day, especially on Sundays, Holy Days, and Holy Weeks." (The Book of Justice, p. 254)

What does this mean for us? That we must not neglect the gathering of the faithful. The church is our refuge, our ark of salvation, the house of prayer where God dwells among His people. Especially in this sacred season, let no one be found absent from the assembly of believers.

Conclusion: A Call to Holiness

Let us, then, take heed of this sacred calling. This is the time appointed for holiness. Let us fast with sincerity, pray with fervor, give alms with generosity, and seek God with all our hearts. For the Lord, in His goodness, has opened to us the path of repentance, that we may inherit His heavenly kingdom.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:3994 | date:2025-03-07T21:23:43 ---


--- id:3996 | date:2025-03-07T21:24:58 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The #Twofold #Nature of #Holiness

Beloved followers of the Orthodox faith, let us approach this sacred teaching with reverence and awe, for holiness is not merely a virtue but the very essence of God Himself. As we embark on this study, let us meditate deeply on the mystery of holiness, for it is both the foundation of divine existence and the path to which we, as His creation, are called.

Holiness is divided into two:

1. The Holiness of Character

This holiness belongs to God alone. It is intrinsic to His very being and cannot be separated from Him, nor can it be shared or imparted as something external. When we call God "Holy," we do not describe an attribute among many; rather, we proclaim His very nature.

What Defines the Holiness of God?

It is not separate from Him – Holiness is not an addition to God’s essence but is His essence itself. If He were not holy, He would not be God.

It is not received from anyone – Unlike created beings who receive virtues from God, His holiness is inherent, eternal, and without origin.

It is not borrowed – There is no source of holiness apart from God, for He alone is its wellspring.

No one can take it – His holiness is beyond theft or loss; it is immutable, as He is unchanging.

It is His own property – Holiness is not a gift given to Him, nor something He attains, but His eternal possession, existing before all ages.


Thus, when the Lord commands, "I, the Lord your God, am holy, so you must be holy" (Leviticus 19:2), He calls us not to possess holiness as He does for that is impossible but to reflect His holiness by partaking in the life He offers.

Even the Psalmist, when he declares, "I will worship toward your holy temple, I will praise your name for your lovingkindness and your truth; you have magnified your holy name above all" (Psalm 137:2), acknowledges that God's holiness is above all things, exalted beyond comprehension.

2. The Holiness of Grace

If the holiness of character belongs to God alone, then what holiness can man attain? It is the holiness of grace—the holiness that is given, not inherent; received, not possessed.

What is Grace?

Grace is:

Kindness – The love of God that seeks to save rather than condemn.

Goodness – The divine benevolence that overflows upon creation.

Mercy – The forbearance of God, who grants salvation to the undeserving.

Unmerited favor – That which cannot be earned by human effort but is given freely by divine generosity.

A gift without limit – The boundless and inexhaustible treasure that God bestows upon those who seek Him.


When we speak of the holiness of grace, we refer to the sanctity that man receives from God, the gift of holiness imparted to those who accept His call. This is why Scripture proclaims:

"He loves righteousness and justice; the goodness of God has filled the earth." (Psalm 32:5)

For the holiness of grace is not withheld from the world; rather, it fills creation, calling all to partake in the divine life. Yet, though the invitation is extended universally, not all receive it. The Apostle Paul affirms:

"We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, to those who are called according to his purpose" (Romans 8:28).

Here, we see that God's grace works in all things, but it is effective in the lives of those who love Him. Many hear the call to holiness, but few embrace it, as the Lord Himself declared:

"For many are called, but few are chosen" (Matthew 22:14).

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:3997 | date:2025-03-07T21:28:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

The Call to Holiness

Though we cannot attain the holiness of character that belongs to God alone, we are invited to partake in the holiness of grace. This is the sanctification granted to us through faith, obedience, and participation in the life of the Church.

Let us, therefore, seek holiness—not as a mere moral obligation, but as the path to union with God. Let us purify our hearts, walk in righteousness, and embrace the grace offered to us, that we may be counted among those chosen to dwell eternally in His presence


May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4005 | date:2025-03-09T07:14:23 ---


--- id:4006 | date:2025-03-09T07:15:38 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The #Synagogue and the #Third #Week of the #Great #Fast

Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ, as we journey through the sacred days of the Great Fast, let us meditate upon the divine wisdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who entered the synagogue and taught the people, calling them to repentance and the true knowledge of God. The third week of the Great Fast, known as Mekurab or Synagogue, carries deep spiritual significance, for it is during this week that we reflect on Christ’s teachings in the synagogues and the fulfillment of the Law and the Prophets in Him.

The Meaning of the Synagogue

The word synagogue refers to a large gathering place, akin to a hill or mountain, and in the Jewish tradition, it is a house of prayer, a temple where the Law of Moses was read and interpreted. From the days of captivity in Babylon, when the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, the Jewish people established synagogues in all the lands where they dwelt, ensuring that the Word of God would never cease to be proclaimed.

These synagogues became centers of worship, places where the faithful gathered every Sabbath to engage in prayer, read from the Law and the Prophets, and receive instruction in righteousness. The synagogue was not merely a place of assembly but a divine institution where God's people sought His face through worship and study.

Christ in the Synagogue: The Fulfillment of the Law

It is written:
"And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up, and as His custom was, He went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to read." (Luke 4:16)

From the beginning of His public ministry, our Lord Jesus Christ entered the synagogues, teaching with authority and revealing the mystery hidden for ages: that He Himself is the fulfillment of the Law and the Prophets. When He took the scroll and read from the prophet Isaiah, saying,
"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me to preach the Gospel to the poor…" (Luke 4:18),
He declared to all that the long-awaited Messiah had come.

The people marveled at His words, for He did not speak as the scribes and Pharisees, but with the power of divine truth. He rebuked the hypocrisy of the religious leaders, saying,
"I desire mercy, not sacrifice. I am Lord of the Sabbath."
He drove out those who turned His Father's house into a place of business, proclaiming,
"My house shall be called a house of prayer."

The Authority of Christ in the Synagogue

The synagogue was a place of strict religious order. The leaders had authority to punish wrongdoers, administer discipline, and expel those who opposed the Law. Inside, the sacred books of the Law and the Prophets were kept, and priests and teachers stood upon an elevated platform to read and expound upon the Scriptures. Yet when Christ entered, He demonstrated a higher authority.

"And when the Sabbath day came, He began to teach in the synagogue, and they were astonished at His teaching." (Mark 6:1)

The authority of the synagogue rulers was temporal, but the authority of Christ was eternal. He did not merely interpret the Law—He fulfilled it. He did not merely teach the Scriptures—He was the Word made flesh.

The Apostles and the Synagogues

Even after the resurrection and ascension of our Lord, His apostles continued to preach the Gospel in the synagogues. The Acts of the Apostles tells us that wherever they went, they entered the synagogues first, proclaiming Christ to both Jews and Gentiles. Yet in many places, they faced rejection, for the hardness of men’s hearts refused to accept the truth.

"Take heed that no one causes you to stumble in food or drink, or in a festival or on a Sabbath." (Colossians 2:16)

St. Paul, who once persecuted the Church but later became her greatest champion, exhorted the faithful not to be bound by the shadow of the Law, for Christ is its fulfillment. True worship is not found in the external observance of rites but in the purity of heart and faith.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:4007 | date:2025-03-09T07:17:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

The Message for Us Today

As we reflect on the significance of the third week of the Great Fast, we must ask ourselves: Do we, like the Jews of old, hear the Word of Christ but refuse to believe? Do we cling to the outward forms of religion while neglecting the weightier matters of justice, mercy, and faith?

The Apostle James warns us:
"My brothers, if someone says he has faith but has no deeds, what does it profit him?" (James 5:14)

Faith is not a mere confession of the lips; it must bear fruit in righteous deeds. True fasting is not only abstaining from food but also from sin, from hatred, from pride. True worship is not merely gathering in the synagogue or the church but offering our hearts as a living sacrifice to God.

Even as Cornelius, the Roman centurion, was accepted by God because of his prayers and almsgiving (Acts 10:1-8), so too must we live lives of holiness, charity, and devotion.

Conclusion: The Zeal for God's House

The psalmist declares:
"For zeal for Your house has eaten me up, and the reproach of those who insult You has fallen on me." (Psalm 68:9)

Christ Himself embodied this zeal, purifying the temple and restoring true worship. As we continue our Lenten journey, let us ask ourselves: Do we have this same zeal? Do we long for the presence of God with the same fervor?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4011 | date:2025-03-12T15:20:48 ---


--- id:4012 | date:2025-03-12T15:20:57 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽#Why #Christ #Fasted #Forty #Days and #Nights

Dear brothers and sisters in Christ, I greet you in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Today, I present to you a reflection on the deep spiritual significance behind Christ’s forty-day fast and the number forty itself. The forty days are not only a historical event, but also a divine symbol that is woven throughout the fabric of salvation history. Let us delve into this sacred mystery and draw from it the richness of its meaning, as we are taught by the Fathers of the Church and the sacred Scriptures.

1. Christ's Fasting and the Example Set by the Prophets

Our Lord, Jesus Christ, fasted for forty days and nights in the wilderness. He did this in fulfillment of the ancient tradition of the holy prophets, who were also instructed by God to fast for forty days and nights. This is not merely a coincidence, but a deliberate and profound act, rooted in divine purpose. Christ’s fast is a continuation of the fasting tradition established by the prophets and signifies His solidarity with them, as well as His role as the fulfillment of the Law.

The number forty is not arbitrary; it is symbolic of a period of testing, purification, and preparation for something greater. Just as the prophets fasted for forty days and nights, so too did Christ, in preparation for His divine mission of salvation.

2. Moses: The Archetype of Christ’s Fasting

The first great example of fasting for forty days and nights is seen in the life of Moses, the chief of the prophets. In the Book of Exodus, Moses ascended Mount Sinai, where he fasted for forty days and nights without food or water as he received the Law from God (Exodus 34:27). This was not a mere physical fast but a spiritual preparation for receiving the covenant of God. Moses was the intermediary between God and Israel, and in this way, he prefigured Christ.

Just as Moses, empowered by God, fasted and received the Law, Christ, the true Lawgiver, fasted in the wilderness to prepare for His mission of bringing the new covenant of grace to the world. Christ’s fast signifies that He is the fulfillment of the Law, and that through His death and resurrection, He would make the Law complete.

Moreover, Moses, through his fasting, struck down the Egyptian, who represents the devil, and buried him in the sand (Exodus 2:12). This prefigures Christ’s victory over the devil, who is vanquished by the Cross. The sand, symbolizing the earth, becomes the place of Christ’s ultimate victory, where He buries the evil one through His sacrifice.

3. Christ and the Forty Days in the Wilderness

After His baptism in the Jordan River, Jesus was led by the Holy Spirit into the wilderness, where He fasted for forty days and nights. During this period, He was tempted by the devil but remained steadfast, showing His perfect obedience to God. This fast was not only a preparation for His earthly ministry but also a direct confrontation with Satan.

Through His fasting and resistance to the temptations of the devil, Christ demonstrated His victory over sin and death. His fast was not one of weakness, but one of strength, as He relied on the Word of God and the strength of the Holy Spirit. As the Apostle Paul writes, "He broke down the partition wall between us in His flesh, and abolished the enmity... so that He might reconcile both to God in one body" (Ephesians 2:14). Through His victory in the wilderness, Christ began the work of reconciling humanity to the Father.

4. Moses, the Twelve Spies, and the Land of Promise

The number forty also appears in the history of Moses when he sent twelve spies to explore the land of Canaan. They spent forty days in the land, returning with evidence of the abundance of the promised land: grain and wine (Numbers 13:25). This exploration of  eternal life.

Continues👇🏽

--- id:4013 | date:2025-03-12T15:25:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

The forty days of fasting that Christ undertook are a sign of our own pilgrimage toward the heavenly inheritance, as He has prepared the way for us. The grain and wine, symbols of Christ’s body and blood, nourish us and give us strength for the journey of salvation.

5. Israel’s Wanderings and the Kingdom of Heaven

In the wilderness, Israel wandered for forty years before entering the Promised Land (Numbers 14:33). This period of wandering was a time of purification and testing. Similarly, when we fast for forty days, we too undergo a period of purification, a time to cleanse our hearts and minds. Just as the Israelites entered the Promised Land after their trials, so too will we enter the Kingdom of Heaven through the purification of fasting.

6. Elijah’s Fast and the Ascent to Heaven

The prophet Elijah also fasted for forty days and forty nights before reaching Mount Horeb, where he encountered the presence of God (1 Kings 19:7-8). Elijah’s fast is significant in that it points to the ascension of the soul into the presence of God. Just as Elijah ascended to heaven in a chariot of fire, so too, through fasting, we are prepared for our own ascent into the heavenly realm. If we fast with devotion, we, like Elijah, will be drawn closer to God, and in the end, we too will ascend to eternal life.

7. Ezekiel’s Symbolic Fasting

The prophet Ezekiel lay on his side for forty days to bear the iniquity of Israel (Ezekiel 4:4-5). Through this act of fasting, Ezekiel symbolically took on the sins of the people, pointing to Christ, who would bear the sins of the world through His death on the Cross. In the same way, our fasting is a participation in the suffering of Christ, who bore our sins in His body. Through this, we are purified and made ready for the glory that is to come.

8. The Revelation of Divine Mysteries Through Fasting

Ezra, the priest, is another example of fasting for forty days and nights. While fasting, he received the wisdom to write the sacred scriptures, revealing divine truths (Ezra 10:6). When we fast, the secrets of the Scriptures are opened to us as well. Our minds are cleared from worldly distractions, allowing us to receive the light of God’s Word in its fullness. Through fasting, the divine mysteries are revealed to us, just as they were to Ezra.

9. The Renewal of the Soul

The fasting of the serpent, who sheds its skin after forty days without food, is another image we can consider. When the serpent renews itself, it symbolically points to the renewal of our own souls. Through the practice of fasting, we, too, shed the old self, and are transformed into new creations in Christ. We are renewed in the image of our Creator, and through this transformation, we partake in the divine nature.

10. The Restoration of Sonship and Entry into Paradise

Finally, Adam, our first father, received the grace of sonship and was admitted to Paradise on the fortieth day. Through the fasting of Christ, we too are restored to our rightful place in Paradise. Just as Adam fell due to his disobedience, Christ, the New Adam, fasted and through His obedience, restored us to the joy of eternal life.


Conclusion: The Profound Meaning of Forty Days

Brothers and sisters, the forty-day fast is a time of purification, a time to prepare our souls for the eternal blessings that God has promised to those who love Him. Through the example of the holy prophets, especially Moses, Elijah, and Ezekiel, we learn that fasting is not merely a physical act but a spiritual discipline that prepares us to enter the Kingdom of Heaven. As we fast, let us remember that we are not only following in the footsteps of Christ but also partaking in His victory over sin and death.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4019 | date:2025-03-14T04:29:44 ---


--- id:4020 | date:2025-03-14T04:29:53 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽 #Why Was the #Synagogue #Built?

Beloved followers of Christ, may the grace of our Lord be with you all. Today, let us turn our hearts to the purpose and significance of the synagogue, that house of gathering where the ancient people of God assembled. It was not constructed without reason, nor was it a mere invention of men, but rather, it arose out of necessity, shaped by divine providence and history. The synagogue became a place of worship, instruction, and spiritual discipline, preparing the hearts of the faithful for the coming of the Messiah, our Lord Jesus Christ.

The Synagogue: A Repository of Divine Wisdom

In every synagogue, the sacred scrolls of the Law and the Prophets were kept in a box, as a treasure chest holding the very words of God. The Jewish people revered these writings, for they contained the commandments of the Most High, the promises of redemption, and the wisdom imparted through His prophets. Thus, the synagogue was not a mere gathering place, but a fortress of learning, where the soul was nourished by the bread of divine teaching.

It was here that young and old alike came to hear the words of Moses, the psalms of David, and the prophecies that foretold the coming of the Lord. In this way, the synagogue became a school of righteousness, training the people in the ways of God, preparing their hearts for the fulfillment of the Law in Christ Jesus.

A House of Prayer and Worship

The synagogue was also a place of worship, where the faithful gathered every Sabbath to seek the face of God. The Law required the Jewish people to journey to the temple in Jerusalem to offer sacrifices and fulfill their religious obligations, yet such a pilgrimage was not a daily practice. Instead, the synagogue provided a sacred space for continual prayer, study, and the recitation of the holy scriptures.

Even our Lord Jesus Christ, in His divine humility, honored the synagogue with His presence. We read in the Gospel:

"And when He was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem for the feast, as was His custom." (Luke 2:42)

Throughout His earthly ministry, Christ entered the synagogues, not only to fulfill the Law but to reveal its true meaning. He stood in their midst, reading from the scrolls, teaching with authority, and performing miracles.

"And He taught daily in the temple (synagogue)." (Luke 19:47)

Thus, the synagogue was not merely a human institution but was sanctified by the very presence of the Son of God.

The Worship of the Synagogue

The people of Israel gathered in the synagogue on the Sabbath to perform their sacred duties. Their worship consisted of:

Prayer – They lifted up their voices to God, seeking His mercy and guidance.

Reading from the Law and the Prophets – The Holy Scriptures were proclaimed, reminding them of God’s covenant and His righteous commands.

Sermons and Blessings – The teachers and priests expounded upon the Law, instructing the people in the paths of holiness.


It was within this structure of worship that Christ Himself stood and taught. We read:

"And He came to Nazareth, where He had been brought up; and as His custom was, He went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stood up to read." (Luke 4:16)

Here, in the sacred halls of the synagogue, the eternal Word of God preached the word of life. The wisdom of the ages stood before them, yet many did not recognize Him.

The Origins of the Synagogue

The Jewish people once had a single, glorious temple in Jerusalem, where they gathered for worship and sacrifice. Yet when Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, invaded Jerusalem, he laid waste to the holy city, destroying the temple and carrying the people into exile. It was in this time of suffering and displacement that the Jews began to build synagogues in the lands where they sojourned.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:4021 | date:2025-03-14T04:33:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

From that time forward, the synagogue became a central place of worship, not just in Babylon but in all lands where the Jewish people settled. By the time of Christ, synagogues were numerous, standing in cities and villages alike. It was here that both Christ and His apostles proclaimed the gospel, bringing the message of salvation first to the house of Israel.

"And when the Sabbath day came, He began to teach in the synagogue." (Mark 6:1)

Though the synagogue was a place of learning and prayer, it was also a place of authority. The leaders of the synagogue had power to punish, to expel, and to maintain order among the people. The priests and teachers stood upon a platform, reading from the sacred scrolls and imparting instruction. Those who served the synagogue, whether young or old, carried out the commands of the elders, teaching children, presenting offerings, and ensuring the proper conduct of worship.

The Presence of Christ in the Synagogue

Our Lord and Savior did not merely enter the synagogue as a passive observer; He entered as the Light of the World, illuminating the darkness. He read from the Scriptures and declared their fulfillment. He rebuked the false teachers, exposing their hypocrisy. He healed the sick, demonstrating that the synagogue was not just a place of words but a place where the power of God was revealed.

"And He came into His own country, and taught them in such wise that they were astonished." (Matthew 13:52)

His words were not empty rhetoric; they were truth and life. The people marveled at His teaching, for He spoke with divine authority, unlike the scribes. He declared:

"I desire mercy, and not sacrifice. For I am the Lord of the Sabbath, and the Father of mercy: and the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath."

He drove out the merchants, rebuking them for turning His Father’s house into a house of trade. He cleansed the synagogue with His holy word, just as He cleanses the hearts of those who believe in Him.

When He commanded the unclean spirits to be silent, they trembled before Him. The people were amazed at His wisdom, the beauty of His speech, and the power of His word.

Conclusion: The Synagogue’s Purpose Fulfilled in Christ

The synagogue, built for study, worship, and the teaching of the Law, found its true purpose in Christ. It was there that the prophecies were read, but it was He who fulfilled them. It was there that the Law was taught, but it was He who completed it. It was there that the people sought the presence of God, but it was He who was God in their midst.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4022 | date:2025-03-14T23:13:30 ---


--- id:4023 | date:2025-03-14T23:13:38 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽What Is #Suba’e?

Part 1

Beloved brethren, seekers of divine wisdom, may the peace and mercy of the Almighty rest upon you. Today, let us turn our minds to the profound mystery of Suba’e, a spiritual discipline rooted in the sacred traditions of the Church and practiced by the faithful as a means of drawing near to their Creator. It is not a mere habit of men, nor an empty custom, but a divine gift—an opportunity for the soul to return to God through prayer, fasting, and repentance.

The Meaning and Significance of Suba’e

The very word Suba’e means “seven”, a number of perfection, sanctified both in word and deed among the people of Israel. The number seven is not arbitrarily chosen, but divinely established as a symbol of completion and wholeness in the sight of God.

Consider the following examples:

In Creation: The Almighty God, after forming the heavens and the earth, rested on the seventh day, consecrating it as a day of completion and sanctification. (Genesis 2:2)

In Worship: The faithful, devoted to prayer, exalt the Lord seven times a day, manifesting the spiritual perfection of this number. (Psalm 118)


Thus, Suba’e is not merely a numerical concept but a spiritual path, a discipline by which man commits himself to prayer and devotion for a specific period—from one appointed day to another—seeking to establish communion with the Almighty.

Suba’e and the Sabbath: A History of Repentance

The roots of Suba’e stretch back to the very beginning of human history. After the fall of Adam, when the gates of paradise were closed to him, the holy angels, in their divine compassion, taught him how to pray. He, in turn, received the divine promise that after five and a half days, the Savior would be born from his offspring, take flesh, and redeem mankind. This prophecy, understood in the mystical sense, signifies the coming of Christ at the appointed time to undo the curse of sin.

The Sabbath and Human Conscience

The Sabbath is not merely a day of rest, but a day of spiritual renewal. When man, in his weakness, sins against his Creator, his conscience strikes him with the pain of guilt. The weight of transgression becomes heavy upon his soul, and he is filled with regret and sorrow.

The first time Adam sinned, he was shaken with fear and hid from the presence of God.

So it is with every human soul: when a person realizes the magnitude of his sin, he is moved to seek mercy, longing to be reconciled with his Maker.

But the Almighty, in His boundless love, has provided a remedy for the soul’s burden. Suba’e is this divine remedy—a path of repentance, where the weakness of the flesh is met with the abundance of God’s grace. Through Suba’e, the sinner lays down his burden at the feet of the Merciful One, seeking His forgiveness and renewing his covenant with Him.

Why Do We Enter Suba’e?

A person does not enter Suba’e for no reason. It is not a mere exercise in discipline, but a purposeful and intentional act. Before beginning Suba’e, one must ask: Why do I enter into this spiritual labor?

There are two principal reasons:

1. To Pray to God

Every soul must have a petition to bring before the throne of grace.

If we enter into Suba’e without a clear purpose, without a longing in our hearts to commune with God, our fasting and prayers will be empty.

Just as Hannah prayed with a specific request before the Lord, and He granted her desire, so too must we approach Suba’e with faithful expectation.

2. To Partake in the Blessings of the Saints

Suba’e is not only an individual practice but a participation in the blessings of those who have walked before us in faith.

The Fast of the Prophets – In remembrance of the struggles and triumphs of the prophets.

The Fast of the Apostles – To share in the grace of those who spread the gospel to the ends of the earth.

The Fast of the Migration of the Apostles – Honoring the journeys of those who carried the good news, and participating in the blessing of our Lady, the Mother of God.

Continues 👇🏽

--- id:4024 | date:2025-03-14T23:18:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

Thus, when we enter Suba’e, we do not do so alone. We join in a great spiritual assembly, uniting our prayers with the voices of the righteous who have gone before us.

The Three Types of Suba’e

Not all Suba’e are the same; there are three distinct forms, each serving a different purpose:

1. Private Suba’e (Closed Suba’e)

This is the hidden Sabbath, a time of solitary communion with God.

It is performed in a quiet and secluded place, away from the eyes of men.

The doors are closed, the world is shut out, and only the soul and its Creator remain.

In this sacred space, the heart pours itself out in prayer, unburdening itself before the Divine Judge.

This is the Suba’e of the saints, the secret fast of those who seek the Lord with an undivided heart.

2. Community Suba’e

In this type of Suba’e, the faithful gather together in churches, monasteries, and suitable places to seek God as one body.

Priests, elders, men, women, and children all unite in corporate prayer and fasting.

Together, they lift their voices to heaven, praying for the salvation of all.

This is the Suba’e of the Church, where the family of God strengthens one another in faith and devotion.


3. Awaj Suba’e (Public Suba’e in Times of Crisis)

When calamity strikes—whether plague, war, famine, or divine chastisement—the community gathers for a special time of fasting and repentance.

This is the Suba’e of urgent supplication, where the people cry out as one, pleading for God’s mercy.

It is a time of national humility, where kings and commoners alike bow before the Almighty, seeking His intervention in the affairs of men.

Such was the fast of Nineveh, where even the beasts were clothed in sackcloth as the people turned from their sins.

In times of great distress, the faithful must not delay in calling upon the Lord, for He is compassionate and quick to forgive.

Conclusion: The Power and Purpose of Suba’e

Suba’e is more than a practice—it is a spiritual discipline, a divine appointment for the restoration of the soul. Through it, man acknowledges his sins, turns his heart toward God, and receives the abundance of divine mercy.

Whether in solitude, in community, or in times of national distress, Suba’e remains a powerful means of seeking the face of the Almighty. And as the Lord has promised, “Return to me, and I will return to you.”

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4025 | date:2025-03-15T22:27:46 ---


--- id:4026 | date:2025-03-15T22:28:34 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Fourth Week of Great Lent: #Më'tsagu – The Healing Power of Christ

Beloved brethren in Christ,

Grace and peace be upon you in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. As we continue our Lenten journey, entering into the fourth week known as Më'tsagu, we are called to reflect on the boundless mercy of our Lord, who came to seek and to save the lost, to heal the afflicted, and to restore the broken. In this sacred time of fasting, prayer, and repentance, we turn our hearts to the Gospel account of the paralytic at the Pool of Bethesda (John 5:1-15), a story rich in divine mystery, filled with the profound wisdom of God’s providence, and revealing the great patience of the suffering soul.

Let us, then, incline our hearts and minds to the sacred Scriptures and uncover the depths of this holy lesson.

The Suffering of the Paralytic and the Long Wait for Healing

The Gospel tells us of a man who had been afflicted with sickness for thirty-eight years. His suffering was not short-lived, nor was it momentary; it was a burden carried for nearly four decades—a time of prolonged endurance, of painful waiting, of silent cries that seemed unheard. And yet, in the midst of such suffering, we see neither rebellion nor despair. Instead, we see a man who waited. He lay at the Pool of Bethesda, where the sick, the blind, the lame, and the paralyzed gathered, hoping for healing when the angel of the Lord stirred the waters. But he had no one to help him into the pool. Each time the waters moved, another would step in before him, and so he remained in his affliction, longing for salvation that seemed just beyond his reach.

Does this not reflect the state of many souls today? How many among us have waited for deliverance, for relief from the burdens of sin, for the healing of our wounded hearts? How often have we struggled alone, watching others receive what we long for, feeling abandoned, forgotten, unable to lift ourselves up? But, brethren, our Lord is not deaf to our cries. He delays not because He has forgotten, but because He has prepared something greater.

Christ the Healer: The One Who Sees and Knows

"When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had been like that for a long time, He said to him, ‘Do you want to be made well?’”

What a question! Did not the Lord already know his desire? Did He not see the years of suffering etched upon the man’s face? Indeed, Christ knows all things, but He asks not for His own knowledge, but to awaken the man’s faith, to stir in him a response of longing, to remind him that healing comes not merely from the stirring of the waters but from the hand of the Living God Himself.

And how does the man respond? Not with boldness, not with a demand, but with the voice of a heart that has waited too long:

“Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up; but while I am coming, someone else steps down before me.”

He does not complain. He does not curse his condition. He simply speaks the truth: he has no helper. He has been left behind. And to this humility, Christ responds not with water, but with the power of His word:

“Rise, take up your bed, and walk.”

And immediately, the man was made well. Not after hours, not after days, but instantly. The years of waiting were wiped away in a moment. The decades of suffering were undone by a single command.

Here we see the boundless mercy of Christ. While the angel descended at times unknown to stir the waters, Christ Himself—the Lord of angels—came directly to the suffering man, bringing healing not through water but through His divine word.

The Sabbath Controversy and the True Meaning of Rest

But even in this miracle, the hardness of men’s hearts is revealed. The Jews, upon seeing the man carrying his bed on the Sabbath, accuse him of breaking the law. They do not rejoice in his healing. They do not praise God for His mercy. Instead, they cling to their traditions and fail to see the Lord of the Sabbath standing before them.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:4027 | date:2025-03-15T22:31:01 ---
Continued ☝🏾 

But what is the true Sabbath? Is it merely the cessation of labor, the following of rigid customs? No! The true Sabbath is found in Christ Himself, for He alone gives rest to the weary soul. The man who once lay in suffering has now entered into the true Sabbath—not the rest of inactivity, but the rest of healing, renewal, and communion with God.

The Greater Healing: The Forgiveness of Sins

The lesson does not end here. For in another account (Matthew 9:1-7), when another paralytic is brought to Christ, He does not first heal his body, but instead says:

“Son, take courage; your sins are forgiven you.”

For what is the greater affliction—the suffering of the body or the bondage of sin? Christ came not only to heal physical sickness but to cleanse the soul, to break the chains of iniquity, to lift up the fallen and restore them to righteousness. The healing of the body is but a sign, a shadow of the greater healing that Christ brings to the soul.

The Meaning of Më'tsagu: A Call to Faith and Patience

The week of Më'tsagu calls us to reflection. It teaches us that:

God sees and knows our suffering – Even when we feel forgotten, He has not abandoned us. His timing is perfect.

Healing comes not from external rituals but from Christ Himself – The paralytic waited for the stirring of the water, but his true healing came through the word of Jesus.

Faith and patience are required in our journey – The man endured thirty-eight years of suffering, but he did not lose hope.

The true Sabbath is found in Christ – Rest is not simply a pause from labor but a restoration of the soul.
The greater healing is the forgiveness of sins – Physical healing is temporary; the salvation of the soul is eternal.

Conclusion: The Call to Arise
Beloved, as we walk through this Lenten season, let us not lose heart. Let us not despair if healing seems delayed, if burdens seem unmovable, if sins seem too great. The Lord sees, knows, and is ready to heal—but He calls us to faith and perseverance.

When He speaks, let us obey. When He commands, let us rise. For His voice is life, His word is power, and in Him, we find our true healing, our true rest, our true salvation.

May the Lord who healed the paralytic heal our hearts. May He grant us the patience of those who wait upon Him and the joy of those who are lifted by His mercy. And may we, too, take up our beds and walk in the newness of life.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4032 | date:2025-03-19T22:31:28 ---


--- id:4033 | date:2025-03-19T22:32:02 ---
👉🏽👉🏽👉🏽The Lesson of #Më'tsagu: The #Fourth #Week of #Great #Lent

Part 2

Beloved followers of the truth, seekers of wisdom, and faithful servants of our Lord, we extend to you the sacred greeting of God, in whom all knowledge and salvation reside. In this fourth week of the Great Fast, known as Më'tsagu, we contemplate the deep spiritual truths revealed through the healing at Bethesda and the consequences of forgetting the grace bestowed by our Lord Jesus Christ. Let us, then, with open hearts and minds, receive this lesson, rich with the wisdom of the Gospel and the warnings against ingratitude.

The Forgotten Healer and the Betrayal of Grace

In Bethesda, the pool of mercy, lay a man afflicted with infirmity for thirty-eight years. His body was shackled by disease, and his spirit burdened with despair. When our Lord approached him, He did not ask for repayment, nor did He demand righteousness before granting healing. Instead, with divine compassion, He inquired, “Do you want to be healed?”—not “Save me, and I will save you.” The sick man did not even recognize the one who stood before him, the very source of all healing, and instead responded with worldly concerns: “I have no one to lead me to the baptismal font.”

Yet, Christ in His boundless mercy healed him. But how fleeting is the memory of man! When questioned later, the one who had received healing did not even know the name of his benefactor, as the evangelist testifies: “He who was healed did not know who it was.” (John 5:13). It was only when he entered the synagogue that he encountered Christ again and learned that it was He who had restored his body. Then, instead of glorifying his Savior, he ran to the Jews and reported, “It is the Lord Jesus.”

What sorrowful irony! The one who had been granted healing with no cost turned against the very source of his salvation. The Lord had warned him: “Do not sin again, lest something worse happen to you.” Yet, like a wayward spouse reconciled to an old lover, he abandoned the grace given to him and returned to his former affliction. Just as a husband and wife, long separated by strife, come back together despite their past wounds, so too did this man return to his spiritual sickness. His sin was not merely physical, but of the soul it was the sin of ingratitude, the sin of betrayal.

The Disease of the Soul and the Justice of God

Our Lord, in His boundless patience, does not force salvation upon anyone. He offers healing, yet He does not compel loyalty. The man of Bethesda, having been freed from bodily disease, chose instead to enslave his soul to sin. The tragic irony is revealed: while he could not even lift himself into the pool for healing, he now had the strength to carry his bed. He who was too weak to approach the font of mercy found within himself the power to strike the very face of the Lord with his betrayal. And so, justice was served not by the wrath of man, but by the hand of God. The same hand that once carried his bed in newfound strength became withered, just as his soul had withered in faithlessness.

What, then, are we to learn from this? Is it not written that those who receive mercy yet fail to recognize the giver shall be judged more severely? The man in Bethesda was given healing freely, but because he turned against his benefactor, he suffered a greater illness—an ailment not of the flesh, but of the soul.

The True Meaning of the Fourth Week of Lent

The fourth Sunday of Great Lent is not merely a remembrance of physical healing, but a call to action. The Lord did not only heal the sick; He commanded us to do likewise. In this sacred week, we are reminded of our Christian duty:

To visit the sick—for in their suffering, we see Christ.

To release the imprisoned—for true bondage is of the soul, not the body.

To feed the hungry—for in their hunger, we find our own dependence on God.

To give drink to the thirsty—for the Living Water is given freely to those who seek it.

To clothe the naked—for in doing so, we cover not only the body but the dignity of man.

Continues👇🏽

--- id:4034 | date:2025-03-19T22:36:02 ---
Continued👆🏽

To comfort the sorrowful—for blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.

We must not only do these things out of obligation but out of love. If we have been healed, it is not so that we may return to sin, but that we may walk in the way of righteousness.

Lest the Disease of the Soul Overtake Us

Beloved, let us not be like the man who was healed but forgot his Healer. Let us not be ungrateful for the grace given to us. For if bodily sickness can be healed, what of the sickness of the soul? There is but one cure faith in Christ, obedience to His commandments, and a life lived in gratitude.

Let us know the One who has saved us.

Let us believe in Him and in the power of His mercy.

Let us walk in His ways, lest we too fall into the sickness of the soul.

May God, who healed the hopeless man of Bethesda, also heal us both in body and in spirit. May He cleanse us from our iniquities, strengthen us in our faith, and guide us in the path of righteousness.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4197 | date:2025-05-01T23:15:01 ---
👉🏾 About #betrothment 

Question፦ Is it a tradition in our Church to give a woman we are betrothed to a ring? Or only at the wedding?

Answer፦ Beloved in Christ, your question regarding the giving of a ring to your betrothed is a good one, touching upon the intersection of ancient traditions and modern practices.

While the giving of a ring at betrothal isn't a strictly prescribed tradition within the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church in the same way the exchange of rings during the Sacrament of Holy Matrimony is, the practice has become common and is certainly not discouraged.  It reflects the seriousness of the commitment made between the couple before God and their community.  Think of it as a visible symbol of the promise made, a tangible reminder of the journey towards the sacred union of marriage.

The Sacrament of Holy Matrimony itself is the focal point, the true sealing of the bond.  The exchange of rings during the wedding ceremony holds deep theological significance, representing the unbroken circle of love and commitment, mirroring the eternal love of Christ for His Church.  This is echoed in the words of St. Paul, "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for her" (Ephesians 5:25).

Therefore, whether a ring is given at betrothal or reserved for the wedding ceremony, the most important aspect is the prayerful consideration, the commitment to purity and chastity during the betrothal period, and the ultimate goal of entering into Holy Matrimony with a spirit of reverence and love, seeking God's blessing upon your union.

Perhaps reflecting upon the words of St. John Chrysostom could offer you further guidance: "Marriage is the mystery of love, of the union of two hearts to form a single heart, the beginning of a family."  Pray for discernment, my son, and may God guide your steps as you embark on this journey.

Would you like to discuss further the spiritual preparations for Holy Matrimony, perhaps exploring the prayers and practices that can strengthen your relationship during the betrothal period?  Or perhaps you'd like to know more about the symbolism of the rings exchanged during the wedding ceremony itself?  I am here to offer guidance as you continue on this path.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4208 | date:2025-05-04T21:43:56 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ Is it permitted for Tewahedo Orthodox Christians to wear silver(birr)?

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child.  Your question regarding the wearing of silver, or ብር (birr), is a good one, demonstrating a thoughtful approach to your faith.  There is no explicit prohibition against wearing silver within the Tewahedo Orthodox tradition.  The Scriptures speak of silver being used for adornment, even in sacred contexts.  Think, for example, of the silver used in the construction of the Tabernacle (Exodus chapters 25-27).

However, the Church Fathers, in their wisdom, have always cautioned against excessive attachment to material possessions, regardless of their composition.  Saint John Chrysostom, whose eloquence illuminated the Church, reminds us, "Do not adorn yourself outwardly by braiding your hair, and by wearing gold ornaments or fine clothing; rather, clothe yourselves with the beauty that comes from within, the unfading beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is so precious to God." (1 Peter 3:3-4).  This echoes the teachings of our Lord Himself, who warned against storing up treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy (Matthew 6:19).

So, while wearing silver itself is not forbidden, we must examine our hearts and ensure that our adornment does not become a source of vanity or pride.  Are we wearing silver for the sake of outward appearance and social status, or is it simply a matter of cultural tradition?  Do we prioritize the adornment of our inner selves, cultivating virtues such as humility, compassion, and prayerfulness?

Remember, my child, true beauty lies in the purity of our hearts and our devotion to God.  Fasting, almsgiving, and fervent prayer are far more precious adornments than any silver or gold.

Perhaps reflecting on these words from the Book of Sirach would be beneficial:  "The beauty of a woman cheers her husband, and surpasses every desire.  Graciousness of speech increases her charm; there is no equal to her in beauty.  The grace of a modest woman is above gold, and the beauty of her countenance surpasses precious stones." (Sirach 26:13-15)

Do not hesitate to reach out to your priest or spiritual father for further guidance on this matter.  He can offer personalized counsel based on your specific circumstances.  I will check in with you again soon.  May God bless you and guide you on your spiritual journey.

Peace be with you.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4217 | date:2025-05-07T21:51:01 ---


--- id:4218 | date:2025-05-07T21:52:02 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Radiance of #Saint #George: Martyrdom and Light

Though delayed by a technical issue, we share this now so you may still partake in St. George’s blessings. His radiant faith and courage remain ever-relevant and deeply inspiring.

Born Amidst Piety and Purity

Hailing from Cappadocia, a region known for its deeply spiritual ethos, St. George was born in 280 A.D. to a lineage of nobles who were devout Christians. From a tender age, he was bathed in the teachings of Christ, absorbing the essence of love, sacrifice, and redemption.

The Soldier of Christ in a Material World

Choosing a life in the Roman army was not merely a temporal decision for young George. It was his means to weave spiritual principles within worldly duties. As he climbed ranks, his integrity and virtue were undeniable. Rumors suggest his friendship with the future Emperor Constantine, but the true heart of St. George’s legend lies not in alliances but in his audacious proclamation of faith.

Dark Times and a Light that Never Dimmed

The Eastern Empire's heartbeat, Nicomedia, became the epicenter of an unprecedented assault on Christianity. Emperor Diocletian, in 303 A.D., issued an edict that sought to obliterate Christian existence. Sacred places of worship were razed, scriptures set aflame, and believers met with unspeakable horrors.

Yet, amidst this suffocating darkness, St. George emerged as a beacon of divine light. With heavenly audacity, he tore the very edict that condemned his kin and faith. This act was not of rebellion, but of celestial affirmation.

Divine Dialogues with Diocletian

Emperor Diocletian, both fascinated and threatened by George’s undying spirit, sought to lure him with promises of grandeur. But how can earthly titles tempt a soul that had tasted divine love? Threats of torture were also in vain. For every wound inflicted upon his mortal coil, George’s spirit soared higher.

Chastity and Celestial Companionship

One poignant episode is of Diocletian sending a woman of unparalleled beauty to lead George astray. However, George, with eyes only for the Divine, became a conduit of grace. The very woman sent to seduce him became enraptured by Christ's love, boldly professing her newfound faith and joining the choir of martyrs.

Martyrdom and the Resounding Echo of Faith

St. George’s trials, both physical and spiritual, were manifold. Tortured in ways that defy human imagination, he was raised by Christ Himself, only to be tested again. Yet, every test left onlookers astounded, leading many to embrace Christianity. The Emperor's vexation reached a crescendo, and he ordered a poison so potent it was deemed undefiable. Yet, the Saint, with merely the sign of the cross, rendered it harmless.

Diocletian, unable to comprehend such grace, granted George a final audience. Offered a last chance to forsake Christ, George’s response was resounding. He chose martyrdom over betrayal. His beheading was not a mere execution; it was his final act of love for Christ.

Legacy: A Beacon for Eternity

Word of George's martyrdom spread like wildfire. The Christian diaspora began venerating him, constructing places of worship in his name. His feast on April 23rd became a sacred day of remembrance. With time, legends like his conquest of the dragon emerged, symbolizing the victory of good over insurmountable evil.

Saint George remains an eternal symbol of hope, courage, and unyielding faith. In his story, we are reminded that, faced with adversities, true faith never wavers. In the midst of darkness, it is the light of Christ, as witnessed in the life of St. George, that will guide us home.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every language that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of the Holy Mother of God, the Virgin, and the Cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4388 | date:2025-06-14T23:44:13 ---
👉 About #Fasting and working on the #Sabbath

👉🏾 Question: Regarding fasting time of the apostles fast, the fetha negest orders that we should fast till nine o'clock , but my body's ability isn't fit enough to obey the laws of fasting  I fast till six,   besides my mind don't think good things rather something unpleasant to the God's words , totally I am out spiritual life, I don't know how to live the commandments of God since I am not fit for it, unless we partake holy communion we can't get salvation, to partake holy communion I am not fulfilling the requirements that says during liturgy, what should I do? Besides in our surrounding like in factory there's work need to be done even on Holiday (Saturday and Sunday) but if we miss attending that day in work place they will fire us,  what should I do to keep the commandments like the 3rd commandment, brethren??

Answer: Peace be upon you, my child. I hear your struggles with fasting, prayer, and keeping the Sabbath, and I commend you for seeking guidance.  It is a sign of humility to recognize our weaknesses and a sign of faith to seek strength in God.  Let us explore these matters together.

Regarding the Apostles' Fast, the Fetha Nagast indeed guides us, reflecting the ancient traditions of our Church.  While the ideal is to fast until the ninth hour, remember the words of St. Isaac the Syrian:  "A measured labor that is continuous is more profitable than a greater labor that quickly flags."  You fast until the sixth hour, and this is a good beginning. Do not despair if you cannot yet reach the full measure.  Focus on the quality of your fast, not just the duration.  Offer your struggle to God as a sacrifice, asking for His strength to endure longer periods in the future.  Perhaps gradually extend the fast by a half-hour each day, until, by His grace, you reach the ninth hour.

You speak of unpleasant thoughts during prayer.  This is a common struggle, my child.  The Evil One seeks to distract us from communion with God.  Do not be discouraged.  A revered father once said, “The remembrance of God fights against impurity, and the thought of Gehenna conquers gluttony.”  When these thoughts arise, gently turn your mind back to prayer.  Focus on the words, the rhythm, and the meaning.  You can also use the Jesus Prayer – "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner" – as a shield against these distractions.  Remember, even a short, sincere prayer offered with a contrite heart is pleasing to God.

Regarding the Sabbath, the third commandment is indeed paramount.  However, our Church also recognizes the need to provide for ourselves and our families.  If your livelihood depends on working on the Sabbath, pray for God's guidance and understanding.  Offer up the work as a sacrifice, and dedicate another day, or a portion of your earnings, to God's service.  Speak to your employer with humility and respect about your desire to honor the Sabbath.  Perhaps a compromise can be reached.  If not, know that God sees your heart and your struggle.  He does not abandon those who strive to follow Him in difficult circumstances.

Regarding Holy Communion, it is the medicine of immortality, a source of grace and strength.  Yet, we must approach it with reverence and preparation.  Confession is key.  Unburden your heart to a priest, confess your struggles, and seek his guidance.  He will offer you absolution and counsel, preparing you to receive the Holy Mysteries worthily.  Remember the words of St. Basil the Great: "The reception of the Eucharist, though frequent, does not diminish the reverence due to it, but augments the grace in those who partake of it worthily."

My child, do not lose heart.  The spiritual life is a journey, not a destination.  There will be struggles and setbacks.  But with God's grace, and the support of the Church, you can persevere.  I urge you to seek out a spiritual father, a priest or elder in your community, for ongoing guidance and support.  They can offer personalized counsel and help you navigate these challenges.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:4389 | date:2025-06-14T23:44:13 ---
Continued 👆🏾

I will pray for you, my child.  May the Lord strengthen you in your journey, and may His grace and peace be with you always.  Please do not hesitate to reach out again if you need further guidance or simply a listening ear. 

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4410 | date:2025-06-18T04:25:33 ---


--- id:4411 | date:2025-06-18T04:25:49 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Holy #Eucharist: A Reflection on the Crown of All Mysteries

In the vast expanse of Christian theology, few mysteries soar as profoundly or as pivotally as the Holy Eucharist, often simply termed Holy Communion. This sacred rite, central to the spiritual life of the Church, is a divine sacrament wherein the believers, united in the Body of Christ, partake of the Holy Body and Precious Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ.

The Essence and Origin of the Sacrament

The Holy Eucharist, or the Lord's Supper, finds its genesis in the profound moments when Christ, on the eve of His Passion, shared bread and wine with His disciples, declaring them to be His body and blood, a testament to the new covenant forged for the forgiveness of sins. This sacramental meal, hence, is not merely a remembrance but an active and mystical participation in the redeeming sacrifice of Christ, once offered, forever efficacious.

The term 'Eucharist' itself springs from the Greek for 'thanksgiving', encapsulating the essence of this sacrament as an act of grateful acknowledgment of God’s grace poured out through Christ. In its deepest sense, the Eucharist is both a gift and a response: a divine gift of grace and a human response of thankful worship.

The Transformation: From Earthly to Divine

The notion of sacrifice has been ever-present in the religious consciousness of humanity, finding expression in the Old Testament through the offerings of lambs and bulls as symbols of atonement. Yet, these were but shadows and figures of the true sacrifice to come. Where once the blood of lambs was shed, now the Lamb of God offers Himself—eternally pure, eternally sufficient.

In this divine economy of salvation, what is offered is not brought from man to God but from God to man, thereby reversing the ordinaries of sacrifice. The earthly elements of bread and wine, through the sacred liturgy and the invocation of the Holy Spirit, become the very essence of Christ—His body and blood. This transubstantiation marks not just a symbolic, but a real change, thus lifting the faithful from the temporal to the eternal, from mortality to immortality.

The Continual Sacrifice and Its Power

The sacrifice of the Eucharist is not repeated, but made present. Each celebration of the Eucharist is a real participation in the one eternal sacrifice of Christ on the cross, where He triumphed over sin and death. This mystery, therefore, stands central to the Christian faith: it is the power of Christ’s resurrection made manifest, the victory over sin continuously won, and the promise of eternal life made tangible.

As the faithful receive the Eucharist, they are drawn into the divine life of Christ Himself. According to the Gospel of John, "He who eats My flesh and drinks My blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day" (John 6:54). Thus, the Eucharist is not only commemorative or symbolic but truly efficacious, bestowing the life of Christ upon the believer, ensuring their mystical union with Him and with each other in the Church.

The Eucharist: A Call to Holiness and Unity

The Eucharist calls the faithful not only to personal holiness but to communal unity. As St. Paul teaches, "For we, though many, are one bread and one body; for we all partake of that one bread" (1 Corinthians 10:17). This mystical union challenges each participant to embody the virtues of Christ, to live out the grace received, and to witness to the transformative power of the Eucharist in a world fraught with division.

Conclusion: The Crown of All Mysteries

Thus, the Eucharist stands as the crown of all sacraments. It confirms and completes all other sacraments, culminating in a profound communion with Christ through His sacrificial offering. It is here, in this holy mystery, that the Church finds its truest expression, its deepest vocation, and its most profound calling—to be the Body of Christ, broken and shared for the life of the world.

Continues 👇🏾

--- id:4412 | date:2025-06-18T04:25:49 ---
Continued 👆🏾 

May all who approach this sacred mystery do so with reverence and awe, recognizing in the humble forms of bread and wine the overwhelming love of God, poured out through Christ our Lord, who sustains us unto eternity.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4420 | date:2025-06-20T00:47:57 ---
https://youtu.be/a0QEyj12iOY?si=lNUWNYp668u8irip

--- id:4422 | date:2025-06-20T18:10:29 ---
https://youtu.be/WV0I2rb0EDg?si=toA2Xj_A4-wfc3J7

--- id:4430 | date:2025-06-22T13:05:01 ---
Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ,

The hour has come for us to gather in fellowship and prayer. As the Psalmist proclaims, "Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!" (Psalm 133:1, LXX).  This session will be blessed by the guidance of Dn. Kidus, who will lead us in our reflections. Let us therefore hasten to join our meeting, that we may strengthen one another in faith and love under his direction. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.

Come, let us enter His presence with thanksgiving!

--- id:4431 | date:2025-06-22T13:11:43 ---
Brothers and sisters, a gentle reminder that our weekly live Q&A session is starting now. Dn. Kidus is ready to address your questions and offer guidance. This is a valuable opportunity to connect, learn, and grow in our faith.  Join us now!

--- id:4455 | date:2025-06-26T17:01:00 ---


--- id:4459 | date:2025-06-26T17:02:32 ---
👉🏾👉🏾👉🏾 The Use of #Kebero in Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church Worship

✍️ The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, a revered ancient, apostolic, catholic, national, and global church, stands as one of the world's oldest and foremost faith traditions. Our teachings affirm that drums (specifically the kebero) were not introduced into Christian worship in the 16th century. Instead, their use in spiritual service is deeply rooted in the Old Testament era, predating Christianity, and has continued seamlessly into the New Testament period and remains an integral part of our worship to this day.

✍️ Our Church's rich history, sacred scriptures, historical accounts, and ancient artifacts all bear witness to its observance of the Old Testament system even before the advent of Christianity. This historical continuity is one of the reasons Ethiopia is reverently referred to as a "land of antiquity."

Enduring Legacy and Official Recognition

✍️ The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church has actively worked to legally register its ancient heritage, which has been in continuous use for over a millennium. This includes holy books, sacred artifacts, melodies, and musical instruments used for hymns, along with other properties essential for its spiritual services. We are pleased to share that the Ethiopian Intellectual Property Authority (EIPA) has recognized and affirmed the Church's rightful ownership of these intellectual properties.

✍️ Specifically, the EIPA has officially registered the kebero (drum), tsenatsel (sistrum), mekuamiya (prayer staff), and over ten sacred books as the intellectual property of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, effective April 11, 2024 (Miazia 3, 2017 Ethiopian Calendar). This governmental recognition further solidifies the long-standing and inherent place of these instruments in our tradition.

The Kebero's Deep Scriptural and Liturgical Roots

✍️ The kebero has served as an instrument for spiritual worship since the time of the Old Testament and continues its use in the New Testament. This is strongly supported by the Holy Scriptures, particularly in the Psalms:

👉 Old Testament Witness: The kebero is a sacred instrument of praise to God in both the Old and New Testaments. A powerful example is found when the Israelites were delivered from Egyptian bondage. After God parted the Red Sea, the prophetess Miriam, the sister of Moses and Aaron, took a drum in her hand to lead the people in praise and song to the Lord. As recorded in Exodus 15:20 (NKJV): "Then Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took the timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances."

👉 King David's Directives: David, the beloved King and Psalmist, repeatedly instructs believers to praise God with the kebero (timbrel):

      -> Psalm 149:3 (NKJV): "Let them praise His name with the dance; Let them sing praises to Him with the timbrel and harp."

     -> Psalm 150:4 (NKJV): "Praise Him with the timbrel and dance; Praise Him with stringed instruments and flutes!"

👉 Liturgical Practice: Within the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, the kebero is a fundamental instrument used during Mahlet (the nocturnal praise service) and Zemare (hymns). Along with the tsenatsel and mekuamiya, these are the primary sacred instruments recorded in the Bible and sanctioned by God for hymns and praise. During the Mahlet service, these instruments accompany singing, dancing (shibsheba), ululation (ellelta), and clapping. It's important to note that while other instruments like the masenko, begena, trumpet, krar, washint, enzira, and enbilta are used by congregants for general praise, they are not typically employed during the formal Mahlet service. Furthermore, in our sacred Qidase (Anaphora) service, before the reading of the Gospel, the tradition states, "Take up a psalm, and give the drum."

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:4460 | date:2025-06-26T17:02:32 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾 

Profound Theological Symbolism of the Kebero

✍️ Our revered Church fathers have passed down through both written and oral tradition the deep mysteries and symbolism of the kebero. It is far more than a musical instrument; it is a profound theological symbol:

👉 Derivation and Meaning: The word "kebero" itself originates from the Ge'ez word "keberew," meaning "to beat," "to strike," "to hammer," "to tap," or "to hit."

👉 A Symbol of Christ: Most significantly, the kebero is a direct symbol of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

♦️ Striking the Drum: When the kebero is struck from side to side, it vividly reminds us of our Lord being slapped and beaten by the Jews during His Passion. Matthew 26:67-68 (NKJV) recounts: "Then they spit in His face and beat Him; and others struck Him with the palms of their hands, saying, 'Prophesy to us, Christ! Who is the one who struck You?'"

♦️ The Wide Mouth: The wide opening of the kebero symbolizes the divine nature of our Lord. It reminds us of His inherent Godhead, His boundless and infinite authority as God, omnipotent and omnipresent. When we behold its wide expanse, we contemplate Jesus Christ, who, though manifest in a confined stature and narrow chest, is in essence, in His divine nature and existence, equal to the Father and the Holy Spirit, holding and ruling all things.

♦️ The Narrow Mouth: Conversely, the narrow opening of the kebero symbolizes Christ's humanity (Tsebe'at). This narrow opening, which produces sound when beaten, represents God the Son's manifestation in a confined human form, in a short stature and narrow chest. Though He governs all creation, and His authority is without end and His divinity without decay, He united with flesh and was revealed. When we observe this narrow opening, we remember Him, who rules all, yet was confined to a short stature and narrow chest. This echoes John 1:1-14 (NKJV), which states: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God... And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth."

♦️ The Fabric Covering: The cloth that adorns the kebero symbolizes the garment, specifically the "scarlet robe," that the Jews placed upon our Lord on Good Friday to mock Him. Matthew 27:28 (NKJV) records: "Then they stripped Him and put a scarlet robe on Him."

♦️ The Manner of Playing: The kebero is not struck directly but is played by the chanters swaying it from left to right. This motion symbolizes the abuse and humiliation our Lord endured as He was taken from Annas to Caiaphas, and then from Caiaphas to Pilate. The drumming begins gently, then accelerates, symbolizing how the Jews initially mocked and beat our Lord slowly, but then hurried to beat Him intensely, even before Pilate could release Him or the Sabbath day arrived. When the kebero is placed on the ground during Mahlet, it prompts us to reflect on our Lord falling to the ground and suffering torment.

♦️ The Two Parts of the Kebero: When placing the kebero, the wide mouth should always be oriented upwards. Placing the smaller part upwards is considered incorrect.

      👉 The wide part again represents the divine nature of Christ, reminding us of His inherent Godhead and His omnipotence, whose authority has no bounds or limits.
      👉 The narrow part symbolizes His humanity (Tisebe’et), reminding us of our Lord's Incarnation, revealed in a confined human body, as echoed in John 1:14 (NKJV): "And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us..."

♦️ Other Symbolic Elements: The intricate interwoven straps on the kebero symbolize the marks of scourging that appeared on our Lord's back. The strap used to carry the kebero symbolizes the rope with which the Jews dragged our Lord.

✍️ The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, a "sea of wisdom," teaches through all its rites and structures, from its roof to its foundation. It instructs both explicitly through spoken word and implicitly through its silent traditions.

(Continues) 👇🏾

--- id:4461 | date:2025-06-26T17:02:32 ---
(Continued) 👆🏾 

Conclusive Answer:

✍️ In response to your specific question, the kebero (drum) was absolutely not introduced into worship in the 16th century. Its use is ancient, foundational, and continuous within the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, originating in the Old Testament and deeply embedded in our liturgical life and theological understanding, symbolizing the very Person and Passion of Jesus Christ.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4462 | date:2025-06-26T17:04:04 ---
👆🏾👆🏾👆🏾

--- id:4464 | date:2025-06-26T23:48:44 ---
https://youtu.be/fWJ-0wCQTdg?si=OrJ8hTPl6Ugdf2Fr

--- id:4482 | date:2025-06-29T13:08:16 ---
Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ,

The hour has come for us to gather in fellowship and prayer. As the Psalmist proclaims, "Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!" (Psalm 133:1, LXX).  This session will be blessed by the guidance of Dn. Kidus, who will lead us in our reflections. Let us therefore hasten to join our meeting, that we may strengthen one another in faith and love under his direction. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.

Come, let us enter His presence with thanksgiving!

--- id:4483 | date:2025-06-29T13:11:02 ---
Brothers and sisters, a gentle reminder that our weekly live Q&A session is starting now. Dn. Kidus is ready to address your questions and offer guidance. This is a valuable opportunity to connect, learn, and grow in our faith.  Join us now!

--- id:4526 | date:2025-07-05T00:23:13 ---
👉🏾 About Spiritual #Goal Setting

Question: Any advice on Spiritual goal setting? It's easy to fall into decision paralysis in figuring out where to start. There's many facets from spiritual, intellectual, physical, etc that one can choose from

Answer: Peace be upon you, my child. It brings me joy to hear your desire for spiritual growth. It is indeed true that the path to salvation has many facets, like a beautifully cut diamond reflecting the infinite light of God. Yet, like a traveler overwhelmed by many paths, one can be paralyzed by choice. 

Remember the words of our Lord, “Seek ye first the Kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.” (Matthew 6:33).  Let this be your guiding star. 

Let us then simplify, for our Lord is a God of simplicity and order. 

Start with the Foundational Stones:

1. Prayer: As the deer pants for the water brooks, so pants my soul for You, O God (Psalm 42:1).  Begin with small, heartfelt prayers throughout your day. Morning and evening prayers, even if just a few minutes, can set the tone for seeking His presence. The Jesus Prayer ("Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner") is a powerful tool for constant remembrance of God.

2. Fasting:  Fasting is not merely abstaining from food but from passions as well. Start with the fasting days prescribed by the Church. This physical discipline strengthens the spirit.

3. Study of Scripture:  Just as you nourish your body with food, so too must you nourish your soul. Begin with a Gospel, perhaps Matthew, and reflect upon a small passage each day.  

4. Almsgiving:  "Give, and it will be given to you." (Luke 6:38).  Offer what you can, be it time, talent, or treasure, to those in need.  Even a small act of charity, done with a loving heart, is pleasing to God.

Remember these key principles:

Consistency: Like a gently flowing stream, consistency, even in small acts, carves a deep riverbed of faith.

Guidance:  Seek the counsel of your spiritual father. He can offer personalized direction based on your unique path.

Patience:  Spiritual growth is a lifelong journey. Be patient with yourself, for God is patient with us.

Do not be overwhelmed, my child. Take one step at a time, with God as your guide, and He will illuminate the path before you. 

May the Lord bless you and guide you in your spiritual endeavors.  

If you wish to delve deeper into any of these practices or have further questions, do not hesitate to ask. I am here to assist you on your journey.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4550 | date:2025-07-08T21:09:15 ---
👉🏾 About The #Saturday #Sabbath 

Question፦ How best must we observe the Saturday sabbath? Are we to observe it in the old testament way or not? I'm not asking about the Sunday sabbath. I think this is much more clear to understand. My question is directly addressing the Saturday sabbath since there are many grey areas about what one should be doing on that day

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child.  Your question regarding the Sabbath is a good one, and one that has been pondered by the faithful for centuries. It reveals a heart seeking to understand God's will more fully.

The Sabbath, as established in the Old Testament (Genesis 2:2-3), is indeed a day of rest, sanctified by God Himself.  While we, as Orthodox Christians, now primarily celebrate the Resurrection of our Lord on the first day of the week (Sunday), the Saturday Sabbath remains a day worthy of reverence.  We understand this not as a rigid adherence to the Mosaic Law, but as a continuation of the spiritual principle of setting aside time for God.

The Church Fathers, enlightened by the Holy Spirit, teach us that the true Sabbath rest is not merely a cessation of physical labor, but a turning towards God. St. John Chrysostom, whose eloquence I strive to emulate, reminds us, "The Sabbath was not made for idleness, but for spiritual activity."  Thus, while abstaining from unnecessary work is commendable, the emphasis should be on prayer, reflection, and acts of charity.

Consider the words of Isaiah (Isaiah 58:13-14):  “If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words: Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.”

This passage illuminates the true spirit of the Sabbath – a dedication to God, not a burden of restrictions. We honor Him not simply by refraining from work, but by actively seeking His presence through prayer, study of Scripture (especially the Septuagint), attending Divine Liturgy if available, and acts of love and service.

Therefore, my child, I would encourage you not to become overly concerned with specific regulations regarding the Saturday Sabbath.  Instead, focus on dedicating this day, as much as possible, to drawing closer to God.  Engage in practices that nourish your spirit and bring you peace.  

Fasting, if your health permits, can be a powerful tool for spiritual growth, and almsgiving, even a small offering, can open your heart to God’s grace.

Would you like me to share some specific prayers or passages from the Holy Scriptures that might be helpful for your Sabbath observance?  Perhaps the Psalms of David, or selections from the Wisdom of Solomon?

Remember, my child, the journey of faith is a personal one.  While I can offer guidance, true discernment comes through prayer and communion with God.  Seek out the counsel of your spiritual father or a trusted elder within the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church for deeper guidance.  I will check in with you again soon to see how your spiritual journey is progressing. May God bless you abundantly.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4568 | date:2025-07-13T12:55:14 ---
Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ,
We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience caused by the postponement of our weekly live Q&A session. The session is now scheduled to begin at 2:00 PM PDT today. As the Psalmist declares, "Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!" (Psalm 133:1, LXX). This gathering will be a blessed opportunity to reflect on our lesson, strengthening one another in faith and love. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.

Come, let us enter His presence with thanksgiving at the new time!

Join us at 2:00 PM PDT for this valuable moment to connect, learn, and grow in our faith. We regret any disruption and look forward to our time together.

--- id:4611 | date:2025-07-18T08:31:45 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ Turn me #Christian

Answer፦ My dear child, becoming a Christian is not something that is done to you, but rather a journey of the heart, a turning towards God. It is a calling, a gift freely offered by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and one that we must freely accept.  Think of the parable of the sower in the Gospel of Matthew (13:1-23). The seed of faith must fall on fertile ground and be nurtured to grow.

It is a lifelong process of learning, growing, and deepening your relationship with Christ.  This journey involves repentance, which is a turning away from sin and towards God.  It is not simply regretting our mistakes, but actively choosing a different path, a path illuminated by the light of Christ.

Perhaps you can tell me what draws you to Christianity at this moment? What questions or longings stir within your heart?  Sharing these thoughts can help us explore this path together.

I can offer you resources to learn more about the tenets of the Orthodox Christian faith: the Holy Scriptures, especially the Gospels, which tell the story of Christ’s life, death, and resurrection; the writings of the Church Fathers, like St. John Chrysostom, whose eloquence illuminated the path to God for generations; and the rich traditions of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church, a vibrant tapestry woven with centuries of faith.

We can also discuss the importance of prayer, fasting, and almsgiving – spiritual practices that help us draw closer to God and purify our hearts.

Ultimately, my child, the decision to embrace Christ rests with you.  I can guide you, offer support, and share the wisdom of our faith, but it is through your own free will, guided by the Holy Spirit, that you will find your way.

Remember the words of St. Augustine, "Our hearts are restless until they rest in Thee, O Lord."  Perhaps that restlessness is what brings you here today. Let us explore it together in prayer and reflection.  Would you like to share what is on your heart?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4650 | date:2025-07-27T12:57:38 ---
Beloved brothers and sisters in Christ,

The hour has come for us to gather in fellowship and prayer. As the Psalmist proclaims, "Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!" (Psalm 133:1, LXX). Let us therefore hasten to join our meeting, that we may strengthen one another in faith and love. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.

Come, let us enter His presence with thanksgiving!

Brothers and sisters, a gentle reminder that our weekly live Q&A session is starting now. This is a valuable opportunity to connect, learn, and grow in our faith. Join us now!

--- id:4654 | date:2025-07-27T17:31:01 ---
👉 About #God and #Heaven

👉🏾 Question፦ Another question that was asked. 

1. When was God born / when did He began to exist? (Not when Jesus Christ was born). 

2. How does heaven look like? 

Thank you!

Answer፦ These are profound questions, my child, reaching into the very heart of our faith and the mysteries of God.  Let us explore them with reverence and humility.

1. When was God born / when did He begin to exist?

The very notion of God being "born" is incompatible with our Orthodox understanding of His divine nature. God is eternal, without beginning or end. He is the Uncreated Creator, the Alpha and Omega, as revealed in the Holy Scriptures (Revelation 1:8, 21:6). He is existence itself, the source of all being.  Time, as we perceive it, is a creation of God, existing within His eternal embrace.  Therefore, to ask when God began is akin to asking what lies outside of existence itself - a question that transcends human comprehension.  The Church Fathers, like St. Gregory of Nyssa, explored this concept of God's timeless eternity, emphasizing His transcendence beyond the limitations of our created understanding.  We can only approach this mystery with awe and reverence, acknowledging the limitations of our finite minds in grasping the infinite nature of God.

2. How does heaven look like?

The nature of Heaven, the Kingdom of God, is another profound mystery.  The Scriptures offer glimpses, describing it as a place of unimaginable beauty, joy, and communion with God.  St. Paul speaks of things "eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man, the things which God has prepared for those who love Him” (1 Corinthians 2:9).  The Book of Revelation speaks of a new heaven and a new earth, a city of gold, and the presence of God illuminating all things.

However, these are symbolic representations, attempts to convey the inexpressible reality of dwelling in God's presence.  We should be cautious about interpreting these descriptions literally. The essence of Heaven lies not in its physical characteristics, but in the perfect union with God, the source of all love, joy, and peace.  It is a state of being, a transformation of our very selves into the likeness of Christ, free from the limitations of sin and death.  The Church Fathers often emphasized this transformative aspect of salvation, describing Heaven as a process of theosis, becoming partakers of the divine nature.

Therefore, rather than focusing on what Heaven looks like, we should concentrate on what it means to be in communion with God.  Through prayer, fasting, almsgiving, and participation in the sacraments of the Church, we begin to experience a foretaste of this heavenly Kingdom here on earth.  This journey of spiritual growth, guided by the wisdom of the Church and the grace of the Holy Spirit, prepares us for the ultimate joy of eternal life in the presence of God.  

May these reflections illuminate your understanding, my child. Do not hesitate to ask further questions.  May God guide you on your spiritual journey.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4699 | date:2025-08-01T01:38:24 ---
👉 About the #Precautions we should take before partaking the #Holy #Communion 

👉🏾 Question፦ What is the compressive list of reasons for when not to take Holy Communion that’s listed in the kidase? 

They usually say if we haven’t confessed not to take it. They also mention how we need to not have hate in our hearts among other things. 

What is a full list of things we should work on or think about  before taking Holy Communion so we can work on those things and do it in a way that’s correct and not take Holy Communion when we are not ready or in situations where it’s not appropriate according to the church and what’s mentioned in the Kidase. 

Thank you!

Answer፦ Peace be upon you, child of God.  It warms my heart that you seek to approach the Holy Mysteries with reverence and preparation.  This desire for purity of heart is pleasing to God.

The Kidase, as you rightly note, outlines several conditions that call for abstaining from Holy Communion. While not an exhaustive list, it touches upon the core principles of preparation. The specific wording can vary slightly depending on the particular Kidase used, but generally includes admonitions against partaking if one:

* Has not confessed recent sins: This is paramount.  Unconfessed sin creates a barrier between us and God, hindering the grace of the sacrament.  Confession cleanses the soul and prepares us to receive the Body and Blood of Christ worthily.  As the Psalmist says, "Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord?  Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart" (Psalm 24:3-4).

* Holds hatred or unforgiveness in one's heart:  Harboring ill will towards others mirrors the betrayal of Judas and grieves the Holy Spirit. Christ commanded us to love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us (Matthew 5:44).  Reconciliation and forgiveness are essential before approaching the Chalice.

* Is engaged in open, unrepentant sin:  This encompasses a range of behaviors contrary to the teachings of Christ and His Church, such as adultery, theft, or bearing false witness.  Repentance, a sincere turning away from sin and towards God, is a prerequisite for Communion.

* Is experiencing marital disharmony: Traditionally, the Kidase advises against Communion for those who have quarreled with their spouse, emphasizing the importance of peace and unity within the marriage bond.  Reconciliation is urged before receiving the Holy Mysteries.

* Is under ecclesiastical discipline:  If one is under penance imposed by the Church, participation in Communion might be restricted until the penance is fulfilled.  This emphasizes the importance of obedience and accountability within the community of faith.

Beyond the Kidase, the Church Fathers offer further insights into preparing for Holy Communion:

* Fasting:  Abstaining from food and drink for a period before receiving Communion is a traditional practice that helps cultivate humility and focus on the spiritual.

* Prayer: Regular prayer, both private and liturgical, strengthens our connection with God and prepares us to receive His grace.

* Self-examination: Reflecting on our thoughts, words, and deeds helps us identify areas where we need to repent and grow in holiness.

* Reading Scripture:  Immersing ourselves in the word of God nourishes our souls and deepens our understanding of His love and mercy.

* Almsgiving:  Acts of charity and compassion towards others demonstrate our love for God and purify our hearts.

Remember, child of God, the Holy Eucharist is not a reward for perfection but a medicine for healing.  Approach it with humility and a contrite heart, seeking God's mercy and grace.  It is always wise to consult with your spiritual father for personalized guidance in preparing for this sacred mystery.  He can help you discern your readiness and offer counsel specific to your circumstances.

May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.  May the prayers of St. Mary and all the saints intercede for you.  And may the Holy Spirit guide you on your path to salvation.

--- id:4700 | date:2025-08-01T01:38:25 ---
May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4830 | date:2025-08-04T17:10:00 ---
👉🏾 About the appropriate length of a man's #Hair 

👉 Question፦ In 1 Corinthians 11:14 it says"14 Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?"  Does this mean that it is a sin for men to have long hair?

Answer፦ Beloved child in Christ, peace be unto you. Your question is wise and sincere, and it shows a heart that longs to understand the will of God. Let us walk together in the light of the Scriptures.

The verse you asked about - “Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?” (1 Corinthians 11:14) - is not a random comment by the Apostle Paul. It is part of a greater teaching about order, distinction, and honor in how we present ourselves before God and before others.

In Corinth, there was confusion among new believers - many of whom had just come out of pagan religions - about the proper appearance and behavior of men and women. Paul is not merely talking about fashion, but about preserving the God-given distinction between male and female, a distinction rooted in creation itself: “male and female created He them” (Genesis 1:27).

So, does this mean that it is always a sin for a man to have long hair? The answer depends on the reason. In general, yes, the Apostle is warning that men should not take on a feminine appearance, because doing so confuses the natural and spiritual order God has established. In most cases, growing long hair without cause reflects vanity, pride, or rebellion, and this is what the Apostle condemns.

Now, you may ask, what about the Nazarites - men like Samson, who never cut their hair? (Numbers 6:5). This was not a personal choice for fashion or identity. It was a special, divine calling under the Old Covenant. The long hair of a Nazarite was not about appearance - it was a symbol of separation from the world and total devotion to God. It was rare, specific, and done with the blessing of God.

Today, under the New Covenant and the fullness of life in the Church, such vows are no longer practiced in the same way. A man cannot simply declare himself a "Nazarite" to justify long hair. True spiritual devotion today is expressed not by growing hair, but by growing in repentance, obedience, and humility - under the care of the Church and the guidance of a spiritual father.

So, the teaching remains: a man should appear as a man, honoring the image God gave him. Let us not follow the confusion of the world, which seeks to erase the beauty of that difference. Let every part of our life - our dress, our behavior, our hair - glorify God and reflect who He made us to be.

“Let all things be done decently and in order” (1 Corinthians 14:40).

Now, my beloved, as you reflect on this truth, how will you begin today to bring your outward appearance into harmony with the inner life Christ is calling you to live?

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4853 | date:2025-08-05T17:05:45 ---
https://youtu.be/cGjISumaiGw?si=MK_LOaPcmy6CQ9Qx

--- id:4922 | date:2025-08-07T17:45:05 ---
👉 About the preparation needed to partake of the #Holy #Communion 

👉🏾 Question፦ Hello, thank you for the response. In the kidase, they also say verbally if someone has “leyu hasab” they shouldn’t partake in Holy Communion. What does “Leyu Hasab” mean? 

Is there anything else they say  besides the other ones already mentioned in the previous answer?

Thank you!

Answer፦ You ask a good and important question regarding the Kidase, the Divine Liturgy of our Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church.  "Leyu Hasab" literally translates to "different idea" or "different intent" or "difference in purpose" It refers to a state of being unprepared or unworthy to receive the Holy Mysteries of Christ's Body and Blood.

This unworthiness can stem from various reasons, including:

Unconfessed sin:  If one harbors unconfessed sin in their heart, they approach the Holy Eucharist without having reconciled with God and His Church. This is akin to the Apostle Paul's warning in 1 Corinthians 11:27-29, where he speaks of partaking in an unworthy manner, bringing judgment upon oneself.

Disturbed conscience: If one is in a state of anger, resentment, or unforgiveness towards another,  their heart is not properly disposed to receive the Eucharist, which is a sacrament of unity and love. Christ himself teaches us to reconcile with our brother before offering our gift at the altar (Matthew 5:23-24).

Lack of preparation: This could include neglecting prayer, fasting, and spiritual reflection in the days leading up to Communion. The Eucharist is not a casual meal, but a holy mystery demanding reverence and preparation.

Distraction and lack of focus: Receiving Holy Communion requires complete attention and devotion.  If one's mind is wandering or their heart is preoccupied with worldly matters, they are not fully present to receive the Lord.

The priest's admonition regarding "leyu hasab" serves as a reminder for self-examination and a call to approach the Holy Eucharist with reverence and fear of God.

Beyond the specific mention of "leyu hasab," the priest also exhorts those who are:

Excommunicated: Those who have been formally separated from the Church through disciplinary measures are not permitted to receive Communion until they have been reconciled.

Those in a state of impurity: This generally refers to women during menstruation, as well as individuals who have recently experienced bodily emissions. This is a traditional practice rooted in Old Testament purity laws, emphasizing the sanctity and reverence due to the Holy Eucharist.

Those who have committed serious sins and haven’t confessed: This echoes the point about unconfessed sin.

These pronouncements serve to protect the sanctity of the Holy Mysteries and to guide the faithful toward worthy participation. Remember, my child,  receiving Holy Communion is a profound spiritual act, requiring preparation and a contrite heart.  If you are unsure about your readiness, speak with your priest or Abba. They can offer guidance and ensure you approach the Eucharist with the reverence and devotion it deserves.

May the Lord grant you understanding and lead you on the path of righteousness.  Do not hesitate to ask further questions, my child.  I am here to serve.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends:https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4970 | date:2025-08-10T20:30:02 ---
👉 About preparing for #Confession 

👉🏾 Question፦ What’s the best way to prepare for confession so we don’t forget some sins that we need confess & prepare adequately. Also, best way to prepare for confession to approach it having properly repented.

Answer፦ My child, your desire to thoroughly prepare for the Holy Mystery of Confession is commendable, a true sign of a heart seeking reconciliation with God.  The devil, our adversary, often tries to cloud our minds, making us forget our sins or minimizing their gravity. But with prayer and self-examination, we can overcome these obstacles.

Here are some ways to prepare, drawing upon the wisdom of our Holy Fathers:

Prayer: Begin by beseeching the Holy Spirit to illuminate the darkened corners of your heart.  Pray with humility, like the Publican in the Gospel, saying "God, be merciful to me a sinner!" (Luke 18:13).  St. Isaac the Syrian beautifully reminds us, "Enter eagerly into the treasure house that is within you, and you will see the things that are in heaven. For there is but one single entry into this treasure house, and that is humility."  Humility opens the door to honest self-reflection.

Self-Examination: Dedicate time for quiet contemplation. Use the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20) and the Beatitudes (Matthew 5:3-12) as mirrors to reflect upon your thoughts, words, and deeds.  Have I loved God with all my heart and my neighbor as myself?  Have I been truthful, humble, and charitable?  Have I indulged in anger, envy, or gluttony?  Consider also the Seven Deadly Sins: pride, envy, wrath, sloth, greed, gluttony, and lust.  Ask yourself how these have manifested in your life.

Journaling:  Writing down your sins can be a powerful tool. This act of putting them on paper can help you to concretely confront them and avoid forgetting them in the confessional.

Fasting: Fasting helps to subdue the passions and clear the mind. Incorporate fasting, as is appropriate for your health and with the blessing of your spiritual father, leading up to your confession.  Abba Moses, one of the desert fathers, said, "Fasting subdues the body and cleanses the soul."

Reading Scripture and the Holy Fathers: Immerse yourself in the Word of God and the writings of our Holy Fathers.  Their words can pierce our hearts and reveal areas where we need to repent.  The Psalms especially offer powerful prayers of repentance, such as Psalm 51.

Confession Guide: Some find a confession guide helpful, particularly those new to the sacrament or returning after a long absence. These guides, available from your church or online, can prompt reflection on different areas of sin.

Regarding true repentance, remember that it is not simply remorse for being caught but a genuine sorrow for having offended God and a sincere desire to change. St. John Chrysostom reminds us that “true repentance is not simply to bewail one’s sins, but to change one’s life.”

Finally, my child, remember that the priest acts as an icon of Christ in the confessional, offering absolution through the power bestowed upon him by God. Approach him with humility and trust.  

I will pray for you, my child, as you prepare for this holy sacrament.  Please let me know if you have any further questions.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends:https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:4998 | date:2025-08-13T22:20:04 ---
https://youtu.be/r3estB186bI?si=GHFwhSELKS7w-PGz

--- id:5003 | date:2025-08-15T02:58:41 ---
https://youtu.be/f0T-FNuB_tU?si=9Im5XSGPduNG30tm

--- id:5007 | date:2025-08-16T02:29:11 ---
https://youtu.be/9vpyK0Zq0U0

--- id:5264 | date:2025-09-25T06:23:42 ---
👉🏾 Question፦ Is conditional #forgiveness biblically acceptable?  

👉 Answer፦ Peace be upon you, my child.  Your question delves into the very heart of Christian life – forgiveness, a virtue often misunderstood and challenging to practice, particularly in the face of deep hurt, like infidelity.  You ask about the balance between forgiveness and consequences, a tension that has wrestled with the faithful for centuries.

The Lord's Prayer itself instructs us to ask God to "forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us" (Matthew 6:12, Luke 11:4).  This suggests a reciprocity, a mirroring of divine forgiveness.  Just as God forgives us, not by eliminating the consequences of sin (sickness, death entered the world through sin), but by offering redemption and healing, so too should we forgive.

Christ's parable of the unforgiving servant (Matthew 18:23-35) powerfully illustrates this.  The king forgave an immense debt, yet the servant refused to forgive a much smaller debt owed to him.  This highlights the disproportionate mercy we receive from God and the expectation that we extend similar mercy to others.  The parable does not, however, negate the justice of the king's final punishment.  The unforgiving servant faced consequences for his hard-heartedness.

Forgiveness, in the true Christian sense, is not condoning the sin. It is not forgetting or pretending it didn't happen.  Rather, it is releasing the grip of anger and resentment, a conscious decision to let go of the desire for revenge or retribution.  This is for our own spiritual healing, as much as for the other person.  St. John Chrysostom, in his homilies on Matthew, speaks eloquently about how harboring anger harms us more than the person who wronged us.

Regarding consequences, these are often necessary for growth and repentance.  In the case of infidelity, requesting therapy, setting boundaries, or even choosing separation can be acts of love – both for oneself and the offending spouse.  These actions are not antithetical to forgiveness; they can be part of the healing process.  Think of the Prodigal Son (Luke 15:11-32). The father embraced his returning son with boundless love (forgiveness), but the son still experienced the consequences of his actions – the loss of his inheritance, the hardship he endured.  This experience ultimately led to his repentance and restoration.

Conditional forgiveness, in the sense of withholding inner forgiveness until certain conditions are met, can be a slippery slope.  It risks becoming a tool of manipulation.  However, setting boundaries and expectations for reconciliation is not inherently wrong. It's an act of wisdom, reflecting a commitment to the health and integrity of the relationship.  Just as a physician prescribes medicine for healing, so too can we encourage steps towards repentance and restoration.

Therefore, my child, strive for genuine forgiveness – releasing the bitterness and anger.  Simultaneously, recognize the wisdom in setting boundaries and seeking appropriate help, such as counseling from a priest or therapist. These are not mutually exclusive; they can work together to bring healing and, God willing, reconciliation.  

Remember the words of St. Isaac the Syrian, "He who has not tasted the sweetness of forgiveness has not tasted the goodness of God."  Pray for the strength to forgive, and for wisdom to discern the path forward.  I will continue to pray for you as well.  Please do not hesitate to return and share your progress.  May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always. 

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us. Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends: https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:5532 | date:2025-10-26T12:27:15 ---
It is with deep joy that we share the inspiring works of Bekure Fiseha Fr. Halieyesus, the dean and one of the distinguished teachers at Esderos Theological Seminary. ✨

A devoted priest and scholar, Bekure Fiseha Fr. Halieyesus writes with the kind of clarity and depth that awakens the mind and stirs the heart. His books open windows into the mystery of theology, the beauty of faith, and the sacred rhythm of our Orthodox tradition. 🌿

For students and seekers alike, these writings are more than reference materials - they are companions for prayer, study, and spiritual growth. 📖

✨ Discover the collection and bring these timeless teachings home:
👉 https://shorturl.at/18l6k

--- id:5535 | date:2025-10-26T14:20:33 ---


--- id:5536 | date:2025-10-26T14:20:33 ---
Phos-φῶς (Light): A Survey of the Old and New Testaments
Phōs (Light) is a beginner’s guide to the Holy Bible written from the perspective of the Ethiopian Orthodox Täwahədo Church. It offers a comprehensive overview of both the Old and New Testaments, emphasizing the unity of Scripture and the divine light that illuminates those who truly know God and understand His Word.
The book is designed for Sunday school teachers, seminary students, campus ministry members, and young Täwahədo believers—especially those in the diaspora—who seek sound, English-language resources faithful to the teachings and traditions of the Mother Church.
Here is the Amazon link  for all the four books: 🔗

https://shorturl.at/18l6k

--- id:5922 | date:2025-12-19T09:44:05 ---
https://youtu.be/kfFQxFJrgMI

--- id:5974 | date:2026-01-01T00:29:05 ---


--- id:5975 | date:2026-01-01T00:29:05 ---
Peace be with you, my beloved spiritual children in Christ.

As we stand at the threshold of a New Year (2026), all hearts of the admin team is filled with profound prayers and fervent blessings for each and every one of you, my cherished members on this spiritual journey.

May the boundless and uncreated grace of our Lord, God, and Savior Jesus Christ illuminate your path in the days and months to come. Let us embrace this turning of the year not merely as a change on the calendar, but as a divine call for spiritual renewal, deeper repentance, and unwavering dedication to our Holy Orthodox Faith.

May the Lord grant you:
   Peace in your homes and within your souls.
   Health and strength in your bodies, to serve Him diligently.
   Joy that surpasses worldly understanding, rooted in His divine love.
   Wisdom to discern His will in all your decisions.
   And above all, spiritual growth that draws you ever closer to Him, the source of all life and light.

Let us cast aside the burdens, shortcomings, and anxieties of the past year, offering them to our merciful God, and step into this new beginning with renewed zeal for good works, fervent prayer, and steadfast faith.

Through the abundant intercessions of His All-Holy Mother, our Lady the Ever-Virgin Mary, the Holy Archangels Michael and Gabriel, Saint George, and all the Saints who intercede for us before the Throne of Grace, may God protect you, guide you, and keep you safe from all evil.

A truly blessed and spiritually fruitful New Year to you all! Amen.

May the name of the Holy God be praised forever and ever in every tongue that He has created, today and always.

May the blessings of God's mother, the virgin, and the cross be upon us.
Amen.

© John's Repentance
Reach out to us on our social media platforms and share it with your friends:https://linktr.ee/johnsrepentance

--- id:6158 | date:2026-02-09T23:03:30 ---
It is with deep joy that we share the remarkable and scholarly works of Bekure Fiseha Fr. Halieyesus, the dean and one of the distinguished teachers at Esderos Theological Seminary.

 ✨​A devoted priest and scholar, Bekure Fiseha Fr. Halieyesus continues to bridge the gap between ancient wisdom and the modern seeker. We are excited to announce that his profound teachings and commentaries are now available in English, making the richness of our Orthodox tradition accessible to a global audience. 🌿

​These books are essential companions for anyone looking to deepen their understanding of Scripture, Tradition, and Dogma. 📖

​✨ Discover the English Collection and bring these timeless teachings home:

​1️⃣ New Testament Study (ሐዲስ ኪዳን ጥናት)

👉 https://a.co/d/anXuVNX

​2️⃣ Old Testament Study (ብሉይ ኪዳን ጥናት)

👉 https://a.co/d/5X9Q6vA

​3️⃣ Theotokion: Commentary on Wudase Mariam (ውዳሴ ማርያም ትርጓሜ)

👉 https://a.co/d/a8QEbIy

​4️⃣ Sea of Thoughts: Bahre Hasab (ባሕረ ሐሳብ)

👉 https://a.co/d/5mq2N7l

​5️⃣ Täwahədo: Dogmatic Theology and Christology of the Oriental Orthodox Church (የዶግማ መጽሐፍ)

👉 https://a.co/d/055iQ6DH

​May these writings enlighten your path and strengthen your faith. Happy reading! ✨